impressions of vast angles and stone surfaces--surfaces too great to
the conformation
After a few years he could not endure to be long out of England, and
and the thorn must pierce your heart, and your life-blood must flow into
sheer impressiveness, it had found subconscious expression in dreams,
Influence of a permanent income on Thought. I do not propose to
the electric bell that is on the table_. _The bell sounds with shrill
say when faced by the unknown.
intellectual.  I wonder whom the brooch belongs to.
was a nocturnal suicide in London, where a lone sleeper had leaped
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_In a low voice_.]  It was terribly rash of you to
cloth of silver. Louis XIV. had gold embroidered caryatides fifteen
of thought. The inherited stupidity of the race—sound English common
openly that you seem to me to be in every way the visible
certain queer hereditary rituals addressed to a supreme elder devil or
I don’t think that you should tell me that you love me wildly,
“You must introduce me now,” cried Lord Henry, laughing.
dans les montagnes, mais je ne le crois pas.  Moi, j’ai passé trois nuits
psed the window, and a second later he felt himself brushed as if
h never arrives, whilst items from India
Then the Swallow flew back to the Happy Prince, and told him what he had
the horror had been blackly unwinding itself behind the closed door of
strange lurid fragment from some Jacobean tragedy, as a wonderful scene
Lord Henry languidly.
am. My father is Lord Bracknell. You have never heard of papa, I
As the door closed, Dorian put the key in his pocket and looked round
gables, and great bare trees clawing up at the grey November sky with
"Mr. Armitage," he said, "I calc'late I've got to take that book home.
here.”  And the Town Clerk made a note of the suggestion.
[_Exit_ MASON.]
enough I know, and English society is all wrong. That is the reason why
times a week, and sometimes oftener.
on meteoric iron. When the cooling had grown very considerable, the
Lady Bracknell.]
moi.
something dark in the corner, and upon seeing it more clearly he
LADY CHILTERN               _Miss Julia Neilson_.
so I shall have to learn all the angles of the planes and all the
made wild orgiastic prayers that were answered by loud crackings and
my business took me through and past it.
The trees budded prematurely around Nahum's, and at night they swayed
talk to her. Is that right? What about that?”
depths was intolerable, and at length the quick-eared Hawkins thought
to travel! A Gladstone bag and an ulster! Come in, or the fog will get
little Duke slept in peace under the great feathered canopy in the Royal
Gwendolen! What does this mean?
slight error. Mr. Ernest Worthing is engaged to me. The announcement
great wings, and of a glimpse of shining eyes and a mountainous white
of those gracious figures in a pageant or a play, whose joys seem to be
MRS. ERLYNNE.  My name is Margaret too.
at ten o’clock in the morning, goes to the Opera three times a week,
to say nothing of mine, you must not do that.
over the yellow, goatish face of the
might fancy, especially the art of those whose minds have been troubled
cherche à insulter.  Et je suis votre épouse, n’est-ce pas?
It has been a charming evening, and we must end it charmingly. There is
_1.
The men laughed, and Mr. Chapman got up solemnly from the foot of the
strange days, and all three professors who saw the aerolite and its
“Oh, she is better than good—she is beautiful,” murmured Lord Henry,
sank upon one knee, and kissed her hand.
before.
squirrels, white rabbits, and foxes, but the brooding farmer professed
everything. What more can one desire?
relentlessly.
You young scoundrel, Algy, you must get out of this place as soon as
artificiality those renunciations that men have unwisely called virtue,
a sitting-room.
pressure.  That is the most unbecoming thing there is.  It makes the
now lying before the meeting.
walk unassisted, with falterings which another month was sufficient to
question, and that you have reason to believe that the Canal, if
standing at the entrance, smoking a vile cigar.
used to say.
had been wakened that wonderful vision to which alone are wonderful
On one occasion he took up the study of jewels, and appeared at a
partiennent.  Qu’est-ce que c’est, Salomé.
and Zenas were both there, in part, though the vestiges were mainly
from fruits. But where is Cecily?
world. The bad fruit of the fall before was freely mentioned, and it
piece of shelf-paper. It was nothing on which I would naturally have
LORD GORING.  Quite so.  And we men are so self-sacrificing that we never
sont très mystérieuses.  Peut-être ce que nous appelons le mal est le
poppies in her hands. Of course, now and then things linger. I once
yacht under Johansen's command, the men sight a great stone pillar
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_After a pause_.]  Oh! do you really think that is what
man lost his way and had to drive back half a mile. A steam rose from
prints, but there was no longer any house. It had caved in like an
of feverish rushing up and down between wheels and engines to get
both perfect. I was thinking chiefly of flowers. Yesterday I cut an
leaves became apparent to the eye. All the verdure was going grey,
is a seamstress.  She is embroidering passion-flowers on a satin gown for
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Going towards the smoking-room_.]  That is a paradox,
and little birds.  Only in the garden of the Selfish Giant it was still
LADY BRACKNELL.
Your emigrating. He has gone up to buy your outfit.
that makes me put up with them at all. Relations are simply a tedious
you have got on! Do go and change them.
and the dogs' barking on the night Wilbur was born, but no known doctor
these western woods were not feared half so much as the small island
shelves in a rear room of the museum, my eye was caught by an odd
offering to advance any sum of money at a moment’s notice and at the
it was!—more horrible, it seemed to him for the moment, than the silent
his wonderful joyousness, his passionate absorption in mere existence.
forty-five, so we poor women who are under thirty, or say we are, have
ominously in the wind. Nahum's second son Thaddeus, a lad of fifteen,
LORD GORING.  Have you missed me?
the lilies of the field and how they neither toil nor spin, his absolute
n'gha'ghaa, bugg-shoggog, y'hah; Yog-Sothoth, Yog-Sothoth...._"
I never let you know anything about this. It would have been
wound, but they’re better.
have to pay the world a greater price.  There is no more to be said.  I
peace. You can help me. You can open for me the portals of death's
ACT DROP.
had frequently been resorted to by the heads of prominent museums; so
memorized.
deliberate bloodthirstiness and repulsiveness. It was a faith of which
the Duke smothered her with
could hear the steady snoring of the Minister for the United States.
We are. [Clasps hands with Algernon.]
dance with me till dawn.  If I bring her a red rose, I shall hold her in
stainless and guiltless of all offence towards you.
Certain letters, as used in certain parts of the manuscript, emerged
have been beyond power and description; one who has really assisted me,
are close to his very secret and know nothing of it.  Nor would there be
the prospect.  He visited all the public monuments, and sat a long time
Prime Minister, and you are to have the vacant seat in the Cabinet.
MRS. ERLYNNE                _Miss Marion Terry_.
married on the very day on which I am to be let off.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I am afraid I don’t quite understand what you mean.
noted as much for the careful selection and placing of those invited,
a sound that the chronicler would not put on paper. For an instant
gossip. Thaddeus, an especially sensitive youth, suffered the most.
the Corporation to decide what was to be done with the metal.
justice.
“Good night,” answered the young man, passing up the steps and wiping
_As the scene progresses he paces nervously up and down the room_.]
GWENDOLEN.
Campbell looked at him in surprise, and then took up the paper, and
day to charm his guests with the wonders of their art. His little
creeping about the ridgepoles of the house, barn and sheds. It was a
fact is, that I told him a story with a moral.”
better life in the future. [Jack glares at him and does not take his
a stone. And still the pale phosphorescense glowed in that detestably
nutshells every night to the great annoyance of their parents and the
said the younger man. He watched him intently after he had spoken.
Well, one must be serious about something, if one wants to have any
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
the Athenaeum. It is the hour when we sleep there.”
hat off.
As my granduncle's heir and executor, for he died a childless widower,
On the nineteenth of October Nahum staggered into Ammi's house with
Don’t make yourself incomplete. You are quite flawless now. You need
aisle of St. George's, Hanover Square, with his daughter leaning on his
Formalities were gone through by bewildered officials, abnormal details
think so, Mr. Gray?”
akin to the dream-sculpture of young Wilcox.
There was once a road over the hills and through the valleys, that ran
It would ruin me.  Arthur, the only thing for me to
he has made in life_.  _A nervous temperament_, _with a tired look_.
the ground that you have reasons to believe that the Commissioners have
enemies on every side, and driven almost to bay, he vanished into the
METHUEN & CO. LTD.
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_Taking no notice at all of_ LORD GORING, _and
would by now be screaming with fright and frenzy. Who knows the end?
toujours tort_.”
que j’avais entendu dans le palais le battement des ailes de l’ange de la
LORD DARLINGTON.  It’s a curious thing, Duchess, about the game of
“The betting is on the Americans.”
you—shame, yes, shame and disgrace.
best wishes!  Oh! stop a moment.
d’Hérodias_, _Princesse de Judée_.]
The rich can’t do everything, after all.
with it all such scenes as the high priest of orthodoxy rending his
it, since Dunwich folk are never anxious to call the outside world's
“By this time, however, the lights were being put out in the theatre,
with his finely curved scarlet lips, his frank blue eyes, his crisp
qui est peint avec du vermillon et qui a des cornes de corail.  Il n’y a
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Writing_.]  Why do you say that?
anything—oh, yes, plays the piano—or is it the violin, dear Mr. Gray?’
whippoorwills a-screechin' daown thar in the dark o' noonday...."
the clammy brushing of that coloured vapour in the attic room, but
wonderfully interesting it was.  I assure you that the amount of things I
marriage, which I think is never advisable.
yet he felt afraid. He seized the lighted candle, and held it to the
Markby, Markby, and Markby? A firm of the very highest position in
Yes, sir. Three portmanteaus, a dressing-case, two hat-boxes, and a
I have in my head. However, it wasn’t about myself I wanted to talk.
very rich man.
But the Tree shook its head.
_Second F’cap. 8vo Edition_                     _October_       _1910_
reminds me of you.”
me in halting English that Gustaf Johansen was no more.
the vegetation, grass, leaves, and blossoms alike, while at one moment
being. And because imagination might suggest a conjectural source in
you, Lady Windermere.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  And women represent the irrational.
not touch the floor, and the courtiers in their gay dresses will throng
rfectly hideous they are! Except, of course, in the Church. But
had knocked him down. Two Lascar sailors at once helped him to his
parrot-tulips were ranged on the mantelshelf, and through the small
In the end the three men from Arkham--old, white-bearded Dr.
slouched hat with a red feather, a winding-sheet
My dear boy, we were never even on speaking terms. He died before I was
feet.
are the great white stars of the hemlock flower, there the nightingale
more.  There is no fire in the grate, and hunger has made him faint.”
In the spring after this event Old Whateley noticed the growing number
ointment, for of all
sometimes led? Had some strange poisonous germ crept from body
omethin' from away off in the sky
of Dæmons are Matters of too common Knowledge to be deny'd; the
with me one night longer?”
She heaved a deep sigh. It was a sigh of relief. The terrible moment,
bulk beyond the remotest trees--but I suppose he had been hearing too
strange sense of terror creeping over him. Was the world going to be
A MON AMI
MR. HOPPER                  _Mr. Alfred Holles_.
to disperse homeward, anxious to bar themselves indoors despite the
ALGERNON.
test again the disappearing fragment left carefully cased in lead.
separated things--in this case an old newspaper item and the notes of
When the second act was over, there came a storm of hisses, and Lord
boy-lover as soon as he came of age. They were both so charming, and
and he prepared to go to sleep; but just as he was putting his head under
SALOMÉ.  Je n’ai pas faim, tétrarque.
back. The man stood waiting for his orders. Dorian looked at him for a
seized and steadied him. All he could do was moan half-inaudibly:
and nodding to Lady Ruxton. “You must come and dine with me soon again.
driven considerably south of her course by exceptionally heavy
was being followed. In about seven or eight minutes he reached a small
different for me than for others; must indeed, by the very nature of the
frame, specially designed by himself, and, though I am a little jealous
another well on higher ground to use till the soil was good again.
What fools!
metaphysical speculations has very little reference at all to the
curiosity; and it had set sail in great haste just after the storm
All day long he flew, and at night-time he arrived at the city.  “Where
CECILY.
but there was the unreality of a dream about it.
MABEL CHILTERN.  It is a beautiful brooch.
Windermere’s too much to heart.  Just take him abroad, and he’ll come
indecorous.
The highest as the lowest form of criticism is a mode of autobiography.
When one is in the country one amuses other people. It is excessively
presence of Adrian Singleton troubled him. He wanted to be where no one
propose is out of the question.
edition of _The Globe_ that I picked up at the club. I came here at
"Virginia, a wife should have no secrets from her husband."
firearms and plunged determinedly into the nauseous rout.
to me that I stopped my ears with cotton.
home to any one who calls.
buttons, any day’; and he ran and plucked all his pretty
LORD GORING.  He walks in the mire.  Of course I am only talking
before man came, but there were arts which could revive Them when the
“don’t talk like that. I have never had such a friend as you, and I
anything you choose.  But it is his love for you.  His desire to spare
scandal. Yes: I should fancy that was his end. I see him lying now on
the ship was befouled by an acrid and blinding green cloud, and then
faded wholly away when they put it in a glass beaker.
JACK.
the glen; and as they left, had little expectancy of ever seeing the
He is a suggestion, as I have said, of a new manner. I find him in the
way back from Clark's Corners. There had been a moon, and a rabbit had
who have suffered.  And such I think I have become.
times, one would fain think, is indeed the “_panis cælestis_,” the
in his life.  It is difficult for most people to grasp the idea.  I dare
she would; but she merely laughs at me.”
Do you suggest, Miss Fairfax, that I entrapped Ernest into an
and a feeling of vague disquiet. Nahum himself gave the most definite
s in the light
Lamb: _Witches and Other Night-Fears_.
earth to worship it at midnight. They said it had been there before
those accustomed to face occasional charlatanry and imposture. Legrasse
love, you whose lips desecrated the word love, you to whom the thing is a
Corey--great raound prints as big as barrel-heads, all sunk daown deep
nze, and the painter
_Venetian red hair_, _aquiline nose_, _and long throat_.
l joy. There was simply the passion of the
way to avoid it. Once across, it is hard to prevent the impression of a
that, and I will allow nobody to play in it but myself.”  So he built a
Gawd, I dun't know what he wants nor what he's a-tryin' to dew."
the best houses nowadays.
her?  [_Puts her hand on his_.]
conversion of an idea into an image.
in the sealed upper story even when all the family were downstairs,
e of it, possibly.
the great sinister ravine; for all the trees on the banks were bent and
Oh, before the end of the week I shall have got rid of him.
LE SECOND NAZARÉEN.  Non, c’étaient deux aveugles qu’il a guéris à
their aspects and motions, and their nocturnal habits contradicted all
HÉRODIAS.  Je ne crois pas aux prophètes.  Est-ce qu’un homme peut dire
make it last for ever. It is a meaningless word, too. The only
it bent its branches down as low as it could; but the boy was too tiny.
LORD GORING.  Ah! I prefer pluck.  It is not so common, nowadays, as
with her breast against the thorn, and the cold crystal Moon leaned down
bothersome about this time, and New York policemen are mobbed by
wide-planked floor. The stench was beyond enduring, and before
evening as Hallward was shown into a little private room at the Bristol
existence till half an hour ago.  Some one who pitied me was kind enough
having artistic tastes; “only not quite so useful,” he added, fearing
“If you want to make him marry this girl, tell him that, Basil. He is
It is not a very pleasant position for a young girl suddenly to find
me on the other side of the big iron-studded gate, and he is the symbol,
Impossible!
in it with a bitterness of hatred that would have poisoned my life.  I
"Bigger 'n a barn ... all made o' squirmin' ropes ... hull thing sort
is, we all scramble and jostle so much nowadays that I wonder we have
showed! The one charm of the past is that it is the past. But women
been shot in the thicket was James
LADY CHILTERN.  It is a true saying, Robert.  And what did she mean by
thar! It smells like thunder, an' all the bushes an' little trees is
did act like they was creaters o' Gawd, an' they's them as says ye kin
him now, and stand, with a mirror, in front of the portrait that Basil
great Cyclopean cities of Titan blocks and sky-flung monoliths, all
had mad hungers that grew more ravenous as he fed them.
his time had almost come.
splendid position, but it is your splendid position that makes you so
changes his clothes at least five times a day, and dines out every night
high a price for any sensation.
“But I like arguments,” said the Rocket.
ve glimpses of strange landscapes, and in one case there
CHASUBLE.
in the wildest speculation and the most desperate debate. Strange and
strengthen, and at last it was very plain that healthy living things
"I believe there's a chance of putting it out of business. You men
[_Enter_ LORD DARLINGTON _C._]
you.  [LORD AUGUSTUS _takes no notice_.]
there is always a soul.  And to mock at a soul in pain is a dreadful
rd Henry, laughing.
them, and when Nahum opened the stable door they all bolted out like
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What this woman said is quite true.  But, Gertrude,
out of our race. Perhaps we never really had it. The terror of society,
so often touched to brighter gold the waving wonder of its hair? The
_Fourth edition_                              _October_            _1910_
furious with him, and told him that Juliet had been dead for hundreds
parties. So far I am satisfied.
every second as the _Alert_ gained impetus from its mounting steam.
HÉRODE.  Qu’est ce que cela veut dire?  Le Sauveur du monde?
When he arrived home, about half-past twelve o’clock, he saw a telegram
came mainly from an immensely aged mestizo named Castro, who claimed
off the ladder, and ran down the garden, and looked over the wall.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh, I’m neither.  Optimism begins in a broad grin, and
a disturbing tale. From February 28th to April 2nd a large proportion
never came. Ugly roots and malignant hanging nooses of Spanish moss
profession we are accustomed to receive a great deal of most gratifying
s gone aout naow to look at 'em, though I'll vaow he
were to be.
JACK.
moved anomalously in a diagonal way, so that all the rules of matter
e elle vous obéit!
and _fleurs-de-lis_; altar frontals of crimson velvet and blue linen;
Johansen proceeded to navigate the captured yacht, going ahead in
GWENDOLEN.
and driven the eyeballs back into their cave. It was useless. The brain
capable of motion there would have been a deed so monstrous as to damn
“Late as usual, Harry,” cried his aunt, shaking her head at him.
explaining why it had not been fired. The thing itself, however,
Yes, but you have been christened. That is the important thing.
night all Arkham had heard of the great rock that fell out of the sky
She passed through the grove like a shadow, and like a shadow she sailed
"_Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn._"
olive-coloured face and worn expression interested him. There was
In February the McGregor boys from Meadow Hill were out shooting
ever I get married, I’ll certainly try to forget the fact.
I may be wrong, but I should have thought that friendship, true
l’étrangler.
nature is seeking a fresh mode of self-realisation.  That is all I am
me.”
terrible, especially to little Merwin, who fancied they talked in some
wander about the house as long as she was harmless to herself and
LORD DARLINGTON.  I, Lady Windermere?
large common next to it.
of those are there many sorts, differing in likeness from man's
in this edition_.  _The acting version_ (_Samuel French_) _does not
ve glimpses of strange landscapes, and in one case there
The supreme vice is shallowness.  Whatever is realised is right.
W. Longitude 152° 17', with one living and one dead man aboard.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_With a polite bow_.]  I fear I could hardly agree
by other laws than those of our sort of Nature. We have no business
_He then realises that it is impossible_.]
LADY MARKBY.  Well, I must say it is most annoying to lose anything.  I
one I wore at Lady Hilstone’s garden-party? You don’t, but it is nice
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Looking at him with amazement that is almost terror_.]
by H. P. LOVECRAFT
shadowed valley of desolation so lately sheltering his ill-starred
be lived without much charity.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  When I was going away he said to me that if I ever
won’t speak to their sons.  I think myself, it is very much to be
hills far steeper to climb, valleys much darker to pass through.  And I
whenever the wind blew, the Reed made the most graceful curtseys.  “I
Not knowing just how he could best be launched on his tales, I feigned
uncommunicative groups came and went where the fiendish thing had
ALGERNON.
Prism starts in involuntary indignation.] But the baby was not there!
that the blight is spreading--little by little, perhaps an inch a year.
great achievement was that he made himself as much loved after his death
Perhaps he had read it and had begun to suspect something. And, yet,
ad time to defend himself,
next room for a moment.
books . . . in yellow covers.
rubbing his knees with an expression of acute agony on his face. The
then that they all owned that Thaddeus had been right about the trees.
twelve or thirteen.
Then another drop fell.
LADY CHILTERN.  Oh! dull, useful, delightful things, Factory Acts, Female
Is your name really John?
latterly I am inclined to wonder--and more than wonder.
ALGERNON.
what fire does not destroy, it hardens. She has had experiences.”
Exchange speculator a Cabinet secret.
a kind of growth or nourishment even now. But whatever demon hatchling
won’t you?
their original direction to see if any reason for their ordering
uld look long at them, and even the medical examiner
that he put his hands to his head with a moan. Memory seemed to pick
Charming day it has been, Miss Fairfax.
of being an undeveloped mouth or throat. The limbs, save for their
to sleep in.
her in the face without a blush.”
will come and have tea with you. That will be just as pleasant.”
greatest friend, Robert Chiltern, to be ruined, rather than marry some
and perspective seemed upset.
dogs slavered and crouched close to the feet of the fear-numbed family.
tragedy.  He disbelieves in everything, including himself, and yet his
of a mortal woman to whom the moment of his birth had proved also the
detective and scientist agreed on the virtual identity of the phrase
some one should make a stand against it.
women.
lives—men who have done some shameful thing, and who in some critical
purple pall, the face painted on the canvas could grow bestial, sodden,
difficulty of obtaining green corn, buckwheat cakes, and hominy, even in
all human resemblance left off and sheer fantasy began. The skin was
all the evening.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  You used to adore it.
was read in the most impressive manner by the Rev. Augustus Dampier.
“I don’t want it put straight, Leaf. I only want the key.”
for what the gods have given us, suffer terribly.”
with purity and innocence?  A carefully thought-out buttonhole is much
the frightful symbol, and through it track down the cult to its
vice-admiralty's investigation brought out, and what was known of the
People say the colour of the neighboring herbage is not quite right
past all coherence, and even isolated replies were almost too much for
Rev. Canon Chasuble, D.D.: Mr. H. H. Vincent.
the consciousness of the immense inferiority of everybody else, and this
the morning, and, as far as he could ascertain, no one was stirring. As
usual, and observed that he had begun to look worried. The rest of his
should get married?”
y a
It was then that I heard the story, and as the rambling voice scraped
in the spring, and that wild things leave queer prints in the light
A twisted flash of pain shot across the painter’s face. He paused for a
punished.
“Early the next morning the Miller came down to g
d
was now scarcely five.
depths was intolerable, and at length the quick-eared Hawkins thought
MRS. CHEVELEY.
death it was returned to him and remains in his possession, where I
ALGERNON.
thinking of others.
pain.
sinless infancy--are difficulties the solution of which might
object, the doctor added, was invariably a prelude to the young man's
whom I have so wildly loved—have ruined mine!
in an easy-chair in his office, but was at the manuscript again before
LORD GORING.  Is he in the house now?
aged, I always contradict the aged. I do it on principle. If you ask
By that noon fully three-quarters of the men and boys of Dunwich were
job as they had feared it would be, since the water was phenomenally
LADY WINDERMERE.  Lord Darlington is trivial.
across in my own experience are the lives of Verlaine and of Prince
place, and the Bengal Lights made everything look scarlet.  “Good-bye,”
excuse me.  [LORD CAVERSHAM _goes back_.]  Well, remember my
unplaceable stone.
and Ammi soon saw that he must search for himself. Leaving the harmless
simpletons! Show them Arthur Machen's _Great God Pan_ and they'll think
worse.
kind."
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Sitting down_.]  Oh, no!  A well-made dress has no
over his most celebrated performances, and smiled bitterly to himself as
ed!” he
shrubbery and saplings led steeply upward, and the seekers gasped when
ordinary man could have handled without a secretary. This original
. The
of half-articulate _words_. They were loud--loud as the rumblings and
whilst an architect had gone mad and a sculptor had lapsed suddenly
still-like. We that heerd it got aout Fords an' wagons an' raounded
--_Algernon Blackwood._
him do.
GWENDOLEN.
advantage of the convocation to offer questions for correct answering
LORD WINDERMERE.  I will not—I cannot—she must come!
CECILY.
had cleaned it many times, till there was no stain left upon it. It was
LADY MARKBY.  [_Genially_.]  Ah, nowadays people marry as often as they
That is all. I was going through the park last Sunday, and close by the
who had traveled all the way from New Orleans for certain special
people and did not realize that we live in an age when unnecessary
you say those dreadful things, things so unlike your real self?  Don’t
and the secret of life is to reproduce that experience as often as
épée.  Il n’ose pas le tuer.  C’est un lâche, cet esclave!  Il faut
LORD GORING.  I can’t help it.  I always look pleased when I am with you.
_Standing L.
She was extremely annoyed at the tone he had adopted with her, and
“Mother, Mother,” she cried, “why does he love me so much? I know why I
was started when Silas Bishop--of the undecayed Bishops--mentioned
is out of town, get his address.”
the _Darwinismus_ movement in Germany, and found a curious pleasure in
and Cold Spring Glen; examining in horror the vast, monstrous prints,
delight, and the flowers were looking up through the green grass and
Dites-lui de venir afin qu’il puisse entendre la voix de celui qui a crié
Your vanity is ridiculous, your conduct an outrage, and your presence
la terrasse.  Il a trop peur du prophète.
sitting together, suddenly there came into her eyes a look that I had
to be able to alter it when I go out.  I intend to try.  But there is
butterflies.
As he closed the door behind him, Dorian Gray touched the bell, and in
to Miss Fairfax.
disown him. I’ll tell him to come out. And you will shake hands with
Pray excuse me, Lady Bracknell, for interrupting you again, but it is
MRS. ERLYNNE.  How do you do, Lady Windermere?  [_To_ LORD WINDERMERE.]
was the Frye incident all over again, and nothing dead or living was
to transform into a spiritual experience.  There is not a single
locked and undisturbed barn. No bites of prowling things could have
disuse of the road past Nahum's which led to its ultimate abandonment.
CECIL GRAHAM.  [_Standing with his back to the fireplace_.]  One
table-napkins wrought for the Priest of the Sun, on which were
at once.
the conformation
sort of existence will he have if you rob him of the fruits of his
Every one does.
LADY WINDERMERE.  You don’t know me!  [_Moves R._]
had heaps of opportunity—you have made an announcement to the House in
*       *       *       *       *
alternative. I have a letter written already. Here it is. You see the
were! How clear, and vivid, and cruel! One could not escape from them.
outside tin stove-pipe.
this time.  I sent it to Lady Jedburgh’s with a note.
ain’t they? Even those that are born in England become foreigners after
that every little action of the common day makes or unmakes character,
gather, for odd timidity about the deep skyey voids above had crept
imposing upon a learned and aged man.
distorted parody that had been a face. "What was it, Nahum--what
first long passage that Armitage deciphered, an entry dated November
won’t be any left for me.
“And yet,” continued Lord Henry, in his low, musical voice, and with
Mr. Ernest Worthing.
communicate her joy. A faint smile curving that sullen mouth was all
to see how he was getting on.
JACK.
“Dear Basil! I have not laid eyes on him for a week. It is rather
and vivid, and cruel! One could not escape from them.
vous supplie, Salomé, de me demander autre chose.  Demandez-moi la moitié
own weapons, and won.
SALOMÉ.  Mais il est terrible, il est terrible.
swift development which that newcomer seemed every day to exhibit.
the globule in the meteor that the geologist's hammer had shattered,
while still others try to explain the Devil's Hop Yard--a bleak,
slopes of Sentinel Hill.
And if life be, as it surely is, a problem to me, I am no less a problem
any explanation, and you are not to ask for any.
developed singular alterations. It was very inexplicable, for they had
“My dear Dorian, it is quite true. I am analysing women at present, so
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  What does he mean?  Do, as a concession to my poor
“It is only the sacred things that are worth touching, Dorian,” said
with the duchess. Good-bye, Mr. Gray. Good-bye, Harry. You are dining
and which for that reason was all the more dominant within him.
even got silver buckles to your shoes as the Chamberlain’s nephew has”;
confession would not do.  The money, if you will allow me to say so, is
with a piercing shriek into the ankle-deep mud of the road. He reeled,
to be heard. The shunning of his house by neighbours told on him, of
AHAM.  I want to speak to you for a moment.  No, do come!
have you to be happy?  You should be thinking about others.  In fact, you
“It makes your eyes lovelier,” was his reply.
mention at all was made of the supernatural, nor was
broken, and a great avenue had been gouged in the precipice-hanging
pleased you. But you are quite right, Dorian. I should have shown
completely caved in. Ammi laid a red checked tablecloth over what was
ALGERNON.
rose.  I will build it out of music by moonlight, and stain it with my
moving mountain had come from Cold Spring Glen and returned to it along
ALGERNON.
important business.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I offered her any sum she wanted.  She refused.
CECILY.
serious men to do in cases of wild gossip, for
je crois qu’en ce moment-ci il est dans les environs de Jérusalem.
“Why?”
JACK.
straight home.
don’t you imitate him, sir?  Why don’t you take him for your model?
"No, thank you, I never eat anything now; but it is very kind of you,
origin, about a foot in height, regarding whose nature authorities
[Illustration: "HE HEARD SOMEBODY GALLOPING AFTER HIM"]
_Anglomanie_ is very fashionable over there now, I hear. It seems silly
and dismal.
How nice of you to like me so much after we have known each other such
religion, a curious form of devil-worship, chilled him with its
ts
Except Margaret.  She’s grown quite pretty.  The last time I saw
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Did your father often speak to you of your mother?
already paying my addresses to your admirable mother.  Damme, sir, it is
moment of her death.
ar benefit from him, but who was
face is gittin' to hev that colour sometimes towards night ...
wrecked my own life, but I will not let you wreck yours.  You—why, you
1700.
bas-relief. It was, Johansen said, like a great barn-door; and they all
[Frowning.] I hope not, Algernon. It would put my table completely out.
birth. I was . . . well, I was found.
been avidly collecting material for my uncle's research.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Why are you talking about Mrs. Cheveley?  Everybody is
life perfectly for us.
the sound of the water against the vessel's sides became so unendurable
gossips would not credit this. Certainly, however, restlessness was
est-ce que je ne peux pas le voir, cet oiseau?
began moving his books and effects out to them. Soon afterward Earl
poverty or sorrow.  And as for altruism, who knew better than he that it
“This is Lord Henry Wotton, Dorian, an old Oxford friend of mine. I
senses but the soul.”
Perhaps this might be a favourable opportunity for my mentioning who I
g away at once, so that only
LORD GORING.  So he gave me to understand.
ke slept in peace under the great feathered canopy in the Royal
g his lifetime.  And certainly, if his place is among
Dumb Daniel, or the Suicide's
were freely
The marriage, I think, had better take place quite soon.
in every tingling fibre of his body.
certainly odd, but all skunk-cabbages are more or less odd in shape
Yet he was afraid. Sometimes when he was down at his great house in
had told some of his conjectures and misgivings; and these two
will send it. You know what the result will be. But you are going to
CECIL GRAHAM.  And the Wiesbaden affair?
time in his own room, sick with a wild terror of dying, and yet
John Lane.  Exclusive of the operatic version, the play is constantly
But that was all. That which spoke could speak no more because it had
[Illustration: "A HEAVY JUG OF WATER FELL RIGHT DOWN ON HIM."]
small and early.
UN CINQUIÈME JUIF.  On ne peut pas savoir comment Dieu agit, ses voies
left her, abandoned her when she was but a child in the cradle, abandoned
branded your lips with its hideous fires, you will feel it, you will
a Christ-like life must be entirely and absolutely himself, and had taken
LADY BRACKNELL.
10
is!  Get him to tell you how he sold to a stockbroker a Cabinet secret.
ever having caught the glint of sunlight. On the gentler slopes there
no credit to myself for trying to escape.”
were to be. From him there were no protests at the miles of old wood
n'gha'ghaa, bugg-shoggog, y'hah; Yog-Sothoth, Yog-Sothoth...._"
in this analysis case gave the same odd bands at first, though later
eddying and foaming in the noisome brine, and as the steam mounted
Opinions were divided as to notifying the Massachusetts State Police,
unfortunately, had been dead for some years. What I now heard so
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Rising and moving chair_.]  And I must say I think
Legrasse's men as they plowed on through the black morass toward the
obstacles? It must be only natural disease--yet what disease could
holocaust of ecstasy and freedom. Meanwhile the cult, by appropriate
ad gone. Five eldritch acres of
“Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “do as I command
use it, do we, father?
_Sixteenth Edition_ (5_s._ _net_)                               _1917_
denounced it roundly, and the whole system of modern political finance.
feels there must be something in him, after all. I daresay it was
to hear the one when the source should yield the other. Animal fury
Gwendolen. Gwendolen is devoted to bread and butter.
used to think that with all your faults you were frank and honest.  You
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Going up to him_.]  If you do, I will make my name so
very pleased with his appearance. The big leather riding-boots that went
had or had not committed, the whole face of creation was completely
and the trees forgot to blossom.  Once a beautiful flower put its head
After Virginia came the twins, who were usually called "The Star and
are watching them, and cooing to each other.  Dear Prince, I must leave
“Only my Christian name, and that I am quite sure she never mentioned
"Feed it reg'lar, Willy, an' mind the quantity; but dun't let it grow
sort of way. At any rate, I determined to wait for the first act. There
stolid resignation about them all, as if they walked half in another
I am quite aware of the fact, and I don’t propose to discuss modern
you.
the pursuing jelly which rose above the unclean froth like the stern
the Whateleys.... It was a octopus, centipede, spider kind o' thing,
and all animal and vegetable life from the earth by some terrible elder
shooting-coat, smoking a cheroot and grumbling over _The Times_.
"They didn't git him," he muttered in his heavy bass voice.
[LADY WINDERMERE _looks horribly frightened at this_.  LORD WINDERMERE
LORD DARLINGTON.  You always amuse me, Cecil.  You talk as if you were a
The Selfish Giant                         43
arranged like the multiplication table, and the message built up with
he was anxious to be away.
deeper into her breast, and her life-blood ebbed away from her.
it at the Opera, before we came on here.
come and confess it to you. You would understand me.”
could not bear this marriage, and yet it seemed to him to be better
of St. Elmo ... and all the while the shaft of phosphorescence from
hidden in them.  I could not understand it.
how it was done.  But the little ducks paid no attention to her.  They
Albany I have. What is your address in the
All three horses outside, tied to a pair of shrivelled saplings by
“What a silly thing Love is,” said the Student as he walked away.  “It
forgotten, for the first time in his life, to hide the fatal canvas,
THE PERSONS OF THE PLAY
deeper within the wood of ancient legendry and horror. This man, Joseph
ALGERNON.
handily about. Nothing, however, occurred except some hill noises; and
*       *       *       *       *
Geoffrey put his gun to his shoulder, but there was something in the
igion, morality, nor reason
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Princesse, il vaudrait mieux retourner.  Permettez-moi
often at the Thayer Street office of Dr. Tobey, whom he learned to
heads,” she kept saying to them; and every now and then she showed them
unfortunate young man his brother seems to be. But I must not disturb
his graceful, though to him only half-serious, fopperies.
universe; some vague abyss out of which only the most accursed rites of
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.
“How can you say that? I admit that I think that it is better to be
e highest
All women become like their mothers. That is their tragedy. No man
“I suppose you have heard the news, Basil?” said Lord Henry that
“Of course I refuse. I will have absolutely nothing to do with it. I
with the sea weeping round the villa and the salt spray dashing against
protests of Mr. Hubbard, who had the true tradesman’s spirited dislike
LORD WINDERMERE.  I _do_ know you.  For twenty years of your life you
Dr. Armitage knew, from the repeated failures of his colleagues, that
MR. MONTFORD.  I don’t know that I should like that either.
doubt helps him not, as it comes not from scepticism but from a divided
need of medical aid that Dr. Hartwell was summoned at once. As the
like a wonderful ending to a wonderful play. It has all the terrible
these are all vacant now, the wide chimneys crumbling and the shingled
future invariably her husband.
I expected.
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  J’aime beaucoup l’or.
MABEL CHILTERN.  You are very late!
and buries his face in his hands_.  _The Servant enters and begins
morning.
PARKER (_Butler_)           _Mr. V. Sansbury_.
had his head buried in his hands, so he did not hear the flutter of the
[Transcriber's note: This etext was produced from Weird Tales April
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_C.
in her eyes that became laughter on her lips. She shook her head at
CECIL GRAHAM.  Dear me!  How very interesting!  Tuppy, I want to talk to
JACK.
need of medical aid that Dr. Hartwell was summoned at once.
darkness and telephoned from Osborn's in the village. He found Old
to-night, Harry. I shan’t go to the club. It is nearly eleven, and I
1906
"_Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lye
“Are you serious?”
scenes and half-sounds not unlike those which Wilcox had described;
waiting for you there for an hour and three-quarters. [Catches sight of
Wilbur's growth was indeed phenomenal, for within three months of his
shadows crawl into the corners of the room and crouch there. Outside,
through a round and curiously regular hole in the clouds before any
_ make _Salome_ so like a piece of music and bind
me how to become young again.”
Boom!  Boom! went the Roman Candle.  Then the Squibs danced all over the
Gardners thought that most of the colours had a sort of haunting
and orgiastic license here whipped themselves to demoniac heights by
dies, but Guildenstern and Rosencrantz are as immortal as Angelo and
obliged to you for all that you have said to me. You are certainly my
meant to do anything then and there. It was getting toward sunset, and
was missing from the rim. Then the lurching buggy had not dislodged
what peculiar madness could have made both boys jump into the well?
as love in the artist is simply the sense of beauty that reveals to the
The darkness lifted, and, flushed with faint fires, the sky hollowed
_Belial_, being heard from under Ground by above a Score of
ALGERNON.
arriving at the village about 1 in the afternoon. The day was pleasant,
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Crossing to bureau_.]  Then I will!  [_Rings electric
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  La fille de Jaïre était morte.  Il l’a ressuscitée.
attracted, and talked often of the meteorite in the succeeding weeks.
A sigh of relief broke from his parched lips, and the colour came back
“Don’t you like it?” cried Hallward at last, stung a little by the
Basil Hallward looking at him. Yet he felt he could not stay. The
so, I
people to whom life is a shrewd speculation depending on a careful
Well, we might trot round to the Empire at ten?
It must be allow'd that these Blasphemies of an infernall Train
“I know what pleasure is,” cried Dorian Gray. “It is to adore some
monstrous laws have made monstrous and unlawful. It has been said that
the well water was no longer good. It had an evil taste that was not
draughts, and a small arquebuse, in case he should be attacked by the
"Dear Cecil! I have no secrets from you."
and handcuffed, for the world to look at.  I had been taken out of the
JACK.
and would have crumpled to the ground had not two or three others
the world. I assure you we can’t bear mediocrities. We women, as some
_First Issued by Methuen & Co. Ltd._ (_Limited Editions on      _1908_
were like disks of blue fire. He was trembling all over.
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Princesse!  Princesse!
away and buried, and the buggy which they shortly returned to him,
t their eyes, but Curtis Whateley snatched back the telescope
gone far along that path of retrogression so common in many New England
JACK.
I trust, Gertrude, that Sir Robert is not like that?
allowed to look at and that even youths may not see till they have been
Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
People vowed that the snow melted faster around Nahum's than it did
“Let me tell you a story on the subject,” said the Linnet.
keep away. The present voodoo orgy was, indeed, on the merest fringe
Why is it that at a bachelor’s establishment the servants invariably
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  That it was necessary, vitally necessary?
vers.
When he thought of her, it would be as a wonderful tragic figure sent
thing you are playing is! I wonder, did Chopin write it at Majorca,
And so, for a whole year, he sought to accumulate the most exquisite
Aucun.  Non, non, vous ne voulez pas cela . . . Écoutez-moi un instant.
simultaneous pictures of an octopus, a dragon, and a human caricature,
possible.
or midwife presided at his coming.
winter.
des lunes enchaînées de rayons d’argent.  On dirait cinquante lunes
parts of books which during his own day had been heaped promiscuously
“Well, as soon as you are dry, you shall be varnished, and framed, and
particular business.  Show her into the drawing-room when she arrives.
require the Liber Conformitatum to teach us that the life of St. Francis
Then a passionate celibacy is all that any of us can look forward to.
the verities become acrobats, we
the medical examiner, and the veterinary who had treated the diseased
to passages in such mythological and anthropological source-books
Dorian Gray grew sick with fear.
they are very fond of a man who admits that he has been in the wrong.  It
To stake all one’s life on a single moment, to risk everything on one
things of earth, for shapes came out of the dark to visit the faithful
thrust back into the chair and that Campbell was gazing into a
diary, and promising an explanation in due course of time.
inchased out of silver, looking through fair mirrours of chrysolites,
or whatever it was, had been captured some months before in the
Those Old Ones were gone now, inside the earth and under the sea; but
thar!
resources of his own library, and wading night after night amidst the
IOKANAAN.  Où est celle qui ayant vu des hommes peints sur la muraille,
in the dining-room? Your brother!
it to my husband?  Tell me what happened.  Tell me all that happened.
evidence. He would destroy it. Why had he kept it so long? Once it had
“It is winter,” answered the Swallow, “and the chill snow will soon be
“Oh, the Willoughbys, Lord Rugby and his wife, our hostess, Geoffrey
plainly to you.  Of course I should not dream of doing so if I were not
Armitage, now that he had actually come upon the horror and its
MRS. CHEVELEY.  You have to.  If you don’t . . .
[CECIL GRAHAM _comes towards him laughing_.]
futile, ineffective gesture of loading muskets and setting pitchforks
floor of her dressing-room. She had swallowed something by mistake,
his lordship said.  Has the fan been lost, my lady?  I can’t find it, and
JACK.
would do anything in the world to ensure Gwendolen’s happiness.
s’approche_.
W. Longitude 152° 17', with one living and one dead man aboard.
a dangerous thing to reform any one, Lady Windermere.  [_Bows_, _and
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Oh!  You are on the brink of ruin, you are on the brink of
lesson, when the Rector came in.
HÉRODE.  Vous entendez comme elle me répond, votre fille.
en
oral ritual among the swamp cult-worshipers his men had arrested, he
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Good evening, my dear Arthur!  Mrs. Cheveley, allow
rd
never thought nobody'd dew it with them tracks an' that smell an' the
to be seen. Industry did not flourish here, and the Nineteenth Century
have made his sister’s name a by-word.”
the same. They love being dominated. I am sure you were splendid. I
ts
wholly of earth.
overemphasized everything that she had to say.
d. Will it
my punishment but bitterness and despair.  I have, however, to do it, and
with him. How had she played that dreadful last scene? Had she cursed
into what it was originally made of, and can never exist again. It was
credible Witnesses now living. I myself did not more than a
their grotesque tales of it ever reached the people of the countryside.
desires of the strange evil so vaguely threatening this planet.
and on that date the dreams of sensitive men assumed a heightened
charge of the dreaded volume.
Ammi showed them the back door and the path up through the fields to
order back the _Emma_ as they sailed about with their hideous idol?
[Amazed.] You?
ever know what the world has escaped. Now we've only this one
you have only got one.
you’d heard—
is always from the noblest motives.”
library. There was a bright wood fire blazing in the large open hearth.
brought the virus, for what live beast of earth can pass through solid
Armitage had an idea that the alphabet might be something esoterically
HÉRODIAS.  Comme ils m’agacent, ces hommes!  Ils sont bêtes.  Ils sont
pursuers were gaining.
earth you are serious about I haven’t got the remotest idea. About
From that time till his rescue on the 12th, the man remembers
gone far along that path of retrogression so common in many New England
bird with pink crest and tail, that was balancing itself upon a bamboo
the liberated Old Ones would teach them new ways to shout and kill
[Severely.] I am a celibate, madam.
felt that it was a door because of the ornate lintel, threshold, and
contain the complete text_.
“You will some day, surely?”
que vous avez fait capitaine il y a trois jours seulement.
noxious cult in Dunedin? And most marvelous of all, what deep and more
is many things, but he is not rational. I am glad he is not, after
[Illustration: "The ring of worshipers moved in endless bacchanale
frenziedly over endless vistas of green-crusted rock to the boat,
ALGERNON.
gather, for odd timidity about the deep skyey voids above had crept
determined to make your portrait the principal thing in my exhibition.
Mrs. Gardner was the next to see it from the window as she watched the
yards.
smiled.
“What are you doing here?” he cried in a very gruff voice, and the
canvas sack lay where it had evidently been thrown. Near the central
any foot-marks been found on the flower-beds, the gardeners would have
fragment lasted a week, at the end of which nothing of value had been
had spoiled her life. I am bound to state that she ate an enormous
glad when the new reservoir blots it out.
between people. I choose my friends for their good looks, my
“You must have something to do with it. Wait, wait a moment; listen to
my business took me through and past it. There was no vegetation of
one.
should always be quite candid.
representing a monster, of a form which only a diseased fancy could
by Dunwich and its denizens.
own house?
claim.
shrunken lids over the glazing gray eyes as the tumult of birds faded
belong to anything right or proper for this earth, and impious with
unbearable. Besides, no ghost in history had ever been treated in this
that all communication between yourself and my daughter must cease
“That is entirely due to me,” broke in Lord Henry.
that was all.
Éteignez les flambeaux.  Cachez la lune!  Cachez les étoiles!
parts of the inner walls as ought to have been revealed, and actually
impressions of people are invariably right.
the Roman
The painter had been busy mixing his colours and getting his brushes
all human resemblance left off and sheer fantasy began. The skin was
“but she is like a red rose now”; and the whole Court was delighted.
choose.
les taches de sang sont aussi belles que les pétales de roses.
The thin, shining line of the Miskatonic's upper reaches has an oddly
Dorian Gray shuddered. He felt that his could not be the hand to take
found in either of the collapsed shells which had been the Bishop house
for the red jagged tear in the neck and the clotted black pool that was
CECILY.
the window the shrilling of the whippoorwills had suddenly ceased, and
left for a stranger to reveal him to himself? He had known Basil
frightfully jealous of him.  He doesn’t seem anxious to speak to me
child ringing horrible in his ears.
CECIL GRAHAM.  By the way, Tuppy, which is it?  Have you been twice
expression of your face as you came in.  Who told her?
dreams, but then something had happened. The great stone city R'lyeh,
another
men
[_The_ VICOMTE DE NANJAC _enters from the music-room with some other
wandered moaning round the house like a lost soul; but the Otis family
to men, and vocal qualities peculiar to beasts; and it is terrible
is?  I think you can guess what it is.  It is the world in which I have
women, or should want of them.
all one’s life one pays.  You must never know that.—As for me, if
former route to and from the summit.
Shoreman and Mr. Worthing were dining with me, eight bottles of
dawn. Some time before noon his physician, Dr. Hartwell, called to see
see you act. You must not think of anything but your acting. Mr. Isaacs
But don’t let Windermere out of your sight to-night.  If you do I will
you to mend the wheelbarrow with; but, of course, that is not my fault.
The change in the quality of the daylight increased, and the crowd
inseparable. Quite forget what he does—afraid he—doesn’t do
it should be realised how hard it has been for me to get anything out of
cognizant of the old data which my uncle had possessed, had been
reach them.
She looked at him in horror. He repeated his words. They cut the air
written down, and in letters too easy to read; it is one of the refrains
disappeared.
SECOND SOLDAT.  Les Juifs.  Ils sont toujours ainsi.  C’est sur leur
accompanied it, the mad melodramatic words, made life seem more vivid
There is no good mixing up sentimentality in it.  I offered to sell
leanings toward theosophy and occultism, went violently insane on
farmhouse set against a hillside four miles from the village and a mile
Erlynne.
the ten-acre pasture across Chapman's Brook; his rattling wain wearing
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_Eagerly_.]  Oh, pray do!  I have been waiting for it
like they's ben on Whateley's cattle ever senct Lavinny's black brat
in my way. Well, I suppose I must give my consent.
That evening, at eight-thirty, exquisitely dressed and wearing a large
LORD WINDERMERE.  Margaret! don’t talk like that of Mrs. Erlynne, you
for I never think of things as they really are; I always think of them as
“You will complete it,” answered the old gentleman with a courteous
me.”
as little as you do—but I see what you want.  It would be a great
slopes for myself, and ceased to wonder at anything besides its own
whose tiara, valued at two hundred thousand florins, was bought at the
possible.
“I am not laughing, Dorian; at least I am not laughing at you. But you
was now scarcely five. It was still hot, and the sages studied its
of some of the finest artists of the French school of _Symbolistes_.
Now that you have the chance you had better avail yourself of it, for I
the floor below. The whole aspect of the farm with its grey desolation
down the room and biting his lip. “You can’t approve of it, possibly.
of you. I will never mention your name. You don’t know what you were to
dreadful places near Blue Gate Fields, and stay there, day after day,
locked and undisturbed barn. No bites of prowling things could have
in vain concerning the historic affiliations of the cult. Castro,
[LADY CHILTERN _enters alone_.  _The other guests have gone_.]
speak guardedly of serious native unrest toward the end of March.
CHAPTER XI.
genius.  He does . . . nothing at all, I believe.  That is a great
[Surprised.] No brother at all?
glens, and brooded obscenely on the mountain tops. Of this he had
The girl grew white, and trembled. She clenched her hands together, and
had seen it in the nasty brittle globule in that aerolite two summers
“Oh! dear no,” cried the Rocket.  “I am merely a visitor, a distinguished
wholesome beasts and birds of the woods. It was nightmare itself, and
savoir.  Le nécessaire c’est de se soumettre à tout.  Dieu est très fort.
before. He thought of Wilbur, goatish and ominous, once again, and
people who have nothing to do. That is the one use of the idle classes
ert
am making the most delightful plans for your future. Do say something.”
It must not be fancied that Inspector Legrasse had the least interest
r things the specimen had done, and how it had
rot.
excitement, and did not know what to do, when Mr. Otis suddenly
address. If you don’t help me, I must send it. If you don’t help me, I
at all?  I have heard that men are brutal, horrible . . . Oh!  [_Hides
that he put his hands to his head with a moan. Memory seemed to pick
MABEL CHILTERN.  Well, Tommy has proposed to me again.  Tommy really does
friendship on false pretences.
of cowed quivering.
dinner, so I did not feel any anxiety. But what a lack of taste she
defeat at the inspector's problem, there was one man in that gathering
married, and I never
brutal gestures, become quite different when she is on the stage. They
Oh, she goes about very little. She is a lady considerably advanced in
of the complex. But I don’t like scenes, except on the stage. What
dishonest, an evil influence on every one whose trust or friendship she
s a genius. Women are a decorative sex. They
and she is crying.  She has no shoes or stockings, and her little head is
What it suggested, however, was of portentous significance to my
MISS PRISM.
the savage barking of the dogs awakened the household at Elmer Frye's,
invariably finds it out.  Women have a wonderful instinct about things.
tree, and he was wandering all round it, crying bitterly.  The poor tree
Thank you, Aunt Augusta.
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma.
broke from his lips. The man who had been shot in the thicket was James
that I delight in it. Perhaps you had better write to him. I don’t want
The curiously carved mirror that Lord Henry had given to him, so many
of others; you would have to comfort him.  He would come to you when he
eddying and foaming in the noisome brine, and as the steam mounted
' Sentinel Hill--Luther he had the guts ter step up whar he'd heerd
the Whateleys and Bishops still send their eldest sons to Harvard and
But were things different: had I not a friend left in the world; were
Meanwhile frightful changes were taking place on the floor. One need
He had said that the _geometry_ of the dream-place he saw was abnormal,
send it to your husband.
the strange cult-members who had lingered in the old sea taverns.
Chinamen said that there were double meanings in the _Necronomicon_
“Then you are quite behind the age,” said the Water-rat.  “Every good
“Some money, sir—not much, and a six-shooter. There was no name of any
in, but which, from the twelfth century down to our own day, have been
piece of paper, drawing first flowers and bits of architecture, and
toujours avec lui . . . Au moins, c’est possible.  On ne sait pas, mais
GWENDOLEN.
idea.  But every one has some weak point.  There is some flaw in each one
sing it. They spoil every romance by trying to
would be of help.
glen itself. The sky grew very dark, and the watchers hoped that the
time was going.”
d gaining a kind of symbolical value, as though they
want them to be thinking about me.  I must go round now and rehearse at
English variety.
material agent in stamping out the entity which Wilbur Whateley had
name on the door. But I am sorry you won’t come and dine.”
acid and even aqua regia merely hissed and spattered against its torrid
luxuriously and artistically furnished. The sound of a piano is heard
ball-room_, _where band is playing_.  _Door L. through which guests are
y
back into society, and she wants you to help her.  [_Crossing to her_.]
the ten-acre pasture. They walked and stumbled as in a dream, and did
dark and the buggy-lamps faint, but around a farm in the valley which
[LORD GORING, _dressed in the height of fashion_, _is lounging in an
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Circumstances.  [_Moves towards the door_.]
makes more complex. They retain their egotism, and add to it many other
one in that room—that is enough.
Am I to understand then that there are to be no christenings at all
been erased from Dunwich.
having seen the boy running sturdily up that hill ahead of his mother
ntsmen. They blew their tasselled horns and with
England for anything except newspapers, primers, and encyclopaedias. Of
the portrait you have painted of me. Why should it keep what I must
remains of really remarkable ugliness. She had proved an excellent wife
to the editor of a paper in South America, where a fanatic deduces
be away for many years.  Good-night!
D. Galvez, I later met and questioned; and he proved distractingly
great Cyclopean cities of Titan blocks and sky-flung monoliths, all
in the black dominion of the ancient and once passive nightmare.
cheque-book can solve every problem in life.  Why, my dear Arthur, I have
watchers again.
smell, an' says her boy Cha'ncey was a-screamin' as haow it was jest
man?  He is charming when he says, 'Take no thought
to say to you.
1.30 _p.m._
“It must have been just like the palmy days of the British drama.”
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_In a very serious voice_.]  She’s going to explain that
myself now and then.
chants and dancing devil-flames; and, the frightened messenger added,
stone pillars, and of rushing airy presences to be heard faintly at
gazed about the horizon in wonder. A purplish darkness, born of
through a round and curiously regular hole in the clouds before any
“‘I am very sorry,’ said little Hans, rubbing his eyes and pulling off
feel it terribly. Now, wherever you go, you charm the world. Will it
luxuriance not often found in settled regions.
old, but that one is young. I am amazed sometimes at my own sincerity.
afternoon.
cult in the mountains of China.
street leading up from an ancient waterfront swarming with foreign
obey what his father told him; and Ammi thought that his fate was very
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Biting his lip_.]  What do you mean?
*       *       *       *       *
Now, in restoring the abandoned upper story of the house, he was a no
the little boy he had loved.
It is tragic how few people ever 'possess their souls' before they die.
he must, at the very least, have received more responses than any
blue eyes in wonder.
an old-fashioned trencher and ewer, that were placed just
gone, whether they git me er not. Ef they dew, they'll keep up
elder mystery.
the sort of man to have gone to them. He had no curiosity. It was his
thing.  We have forgotten that water can cleanse, and fire purify, and
with it.  It is very much in my way at home, and it is in such bad repair
now what it is to fall into the pit, to
thoroughly unreasonable person.
as chanted aloud:
city and the Thing, but I shall never sleep calmly again when I think
can be ruined except by his own hand.  I am quite ready to say so.
c variants of some diseased,
LADY BRACKNELL.
[MRS. CHEVELEY _goes into the drawing-room_.  PHIPPS _closes the door and
as his kingdom, and made of himself its eternal mouthpiece.  Those of
writing now, but things were told by word of mouth. The chanted ritual
not like other rustics I had known in the sections where reservoirs
From the moment I saw you I distrusted you. I felt that you were false
spiritualising of the soul.
and absolutely extraordinary. You have changed, of course, but not in
you. You are the son of my poor sister, Mrs. Moncrieff, and
LADY CHILTERN.  You are not going, Robert?
All the next day he sat on the Prince’s shoulder, and told him stories of
LORD GORING.  [_After some hesitation_.]  Well, it is what is called
officers were to gruesome experiences, not one remained unmoved at
must get a wife, sir.  Look where your friend Robert Chiltern has got to
ch.”
l’entendez-vous pas?  C’est tout à fait comme un battement d’ailes.
any way annoy or wound her, you will bring shame and sorrow on us both.
come upon him. The hand upon his shoulder weighed like a hand of lead.
OSCAR WILDE
“The fashionable substitute for belief.”
Lord Henry shook his head. “American girls are as clever at concealing
lovely?  They came up from Selby this morning.
people’s secrets.  It distracts public attention from their own.
He broke from her with an oath and rushed to the corner of the street,
a serious conversation with you, sir.
not like other rustics I had known in the sections where reservoirs
and fringed along the edges with broideries of pearls, and it stood in
it was oddly soft. It was, in truth, so soft as to be almost plastic;
LADY CHILTERN.  Are you a Pessimist?  What will the other dandies say?
LORD GORING.  Lady Chiltern!
were in the grip of stark terror from an unknown thing which had stolen
When day broke he flew down to the river and had a bath.  “What a
church, but there is no difficulty at all about sleeping.
afford some probable insight into our ante-mundane condition, and
indeed. Then the intimacy had come suddenly to an end. When they met in
"An' then ... Sally she yelled aout, 'O help, the haouse is a-cavin'
moment I came upon it at the bottom of a spacious valley; for no other
"for I have tried it with everything. It must be the ghost." He
don’t let him come back to-night.
showing the philosopher that underlies the dandy_.]  Lady Chiltern, allow
How perfectly delightful!
place is not good for imagination, and does not bring restful dreams at
CECILY.
If you are not too long, I will wait here for you all my life. [Exit
through varied degrees of alarm to a state of really acute spiritual
astronomers measure or deem too vast to measure.
alled
some widespread mystical or paganly religious body. When Professor
the riddle was a deep and complex one, and that no simple mode of
JACK.
his tale was all a freak of madness as the townsfolk had forewarned.
joy at the thought that some one else was to share his secret, and that
little he knew of the true reason! And how strange it was that, instead
believe anything to the detriment of those who are both rich and
Agenouillez-vous au bord de la mer, et appelez-le par son nom.  Quand il
last night, and they told me you were at the opera. Of course, I knew
You don’t mean to say that this charming, clever young lady has been so
when the Arkham party detoured radically from the swath. He told the
his nerve still. Things that were dangerous had to be destroyed. He
some vague fear, he heard still further sounds below.
Till Monday.
what peculiar madness could have made both boys jump into the well?
hastened across the grass, and came near to the child.  And when he came
“Oh, some of the papers do. It does not seem to me to be at all
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.  Que les capitaines de guerre la percent de leurs
“Is it true, Mr. Gray?”
The Otises, however, were deceived, for the ghost was still in the
a l’air très étrange?  On dirait une femme hystérique, une femme
of defense which told them their lives depended on silence.
LADY BRACKNELL.
Once he thought he heard something call, and stopped; but it was only
questioned such of the mongrel prisoners as still survived. Old Castro,
frightened horses--of course this was mere country talk which such
and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him,' had
LADY WINDERMERE.  I am not interested in her—and—you should not mention
the mother so sad.”
Assyriens, qui ont des baudriers sur les reins, et sur la tête des tiares
higher.  Indeed, I know of nothing in the world that is either nobler or
his wheelbarrow, and that is an act of pure generosity.’
silent silver the little churchyard, and from a distant copse a
nce West_.
“I was brutal, Harry—perfectly brutal. But it is all right now. I am
that the ugliness of their sin is taken away and the beauty of their
it, that the police could not but realize that they had stumbled on a
others.  I took pleasure where it pleased me, and passed on.
threw him over the wall into the ditch.
the
barred window and locked door were intact; but it was much as it had
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_Rapturously_.]  Oh! is it a proposal?
fanlike tongues of fire. A dog barked as they went by, and far away in
“You know the picture is yours, Dorian. I gave it to you before it
eyes, “but I am always ready for a new emotion. I am afraid, however,
and smile. He mocked the misshapen body and the failing limbs.
from the point of view through which I, as an artist in life, approach
JACK.
er time chosen men had talked with the entombed Old Ones in
“Certainly,” said the Linnet.
lawn to the college buildings, saw that others were ahead of him; and
Johansen's address, I discovered, lay in the Old Town of King Harold
PARKER.
the Manor House.
thrown aside and all men shouting and killing and reveling in joy. Then
purification.
to think. Certainly few people had ever interested him so much as
“How do you mean?”
“He is gone,” murmured Sibyl sadly. “I wish you had seen him.”
When he arrived home, about half-past twelve o’clock, he saw a telegram
Phipps.
become bankrupt through having invested too heavily in the prose of
love you.
head, and twisting into
of them, too.  Wife as well as husband.  Very sad.  Very sad indeed!
MABEL CHILTERN.
LORD WINDERMERE.  You have no right to claim her as your daughter.  You
LORD GORING.  Ah! I prefer a gentlemanly fool any day.  There is more to
pursuers were gaining.
If heaven ever wishes to grant me a boon, it will be a total effacing
arrested. There was no need for words. What had been disputed in
CECILY.
accidents, the wilfulnesses even, of the romantic temperament also.  He
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Yes.
JACK.
hold the joy that is to herald the feet of many rose-red dawns.  So
they are at least spared the knowledge of defeat. They live as we all
pieds de ceux qui foulent le vin dans les pressoirs.  Elle est plus rouge
envisage the callous rationalism with which I set them aside. But I
Scotland Yard still insists that the man in the grey ulster who left
shell, to which, by some subtle sympathy with the very soul of things, my
live on. It would be always alive.
e world, was
would go, I admit, but still to houses where women who are in what is
I should extremely like to meet them. What do they talk about?
barred window and locked door were intact; but it was much as it had
After that nothing would do but that they empty and explore the well
faded wearily out of things.
answered my summons, and I was stung with disappointment when she told
to stroke the head of a curious Java parrot, a large, grey-plumaged
dying out. Whatever influence I ever had over mamma, I lost at the age
he happened to have a first-class ticket for Worthing in his pocket at
HEVELEY.  No; you must settle now!
thing. Enough is as bad as a meal. More than enough is as good as a
time, went forth regularly and increasingly for cattle-buying. He
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  When I was old, perhaps.  When I had lost my
you should object to the name of Algernon. It is not at all a bad name.
the portents of storm. The chanting of the men from Arkham now became
in vain concerning the historic affiliations of the cult. Castro,
to have you all to myself. I was only happy when I was with you. When
and they wondered how swiftly or how lingeringly a cow or bullock
SALOMÉ.  Parle encore, Iokanaan.  Ta voix m’enivre.
bow. “And now I must bid good-bye to your excellent aunt. I am due at
will be boiled”; and they lay down on the grass, and shut their eyes.
modern landscap
point-blank to advance another inch toward the scene of unholy
long as she lets him, and won’t bother me.  I assure you, women of that
GWENDOLEN.
de l’eau en vin, guérir les lépreux et les aveugles . . . il peut faire
Hallward turned again to the portrait and gazed at it. “My God!
was wrong with all Nahum's folks." When the early saxifrage came out it
possibly it sounds to you.  To those who are in prison tears are a part
with me for one night, and be my messenger?
LADY WINDERMERE.
death. The professor had been stricken whilst returning from the
the dainty Delhi muslins, finely wrought with gold-thread palmates and
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Sometimes.  And sometimes it is a clever game, Sir
“Oh! that you will be a good boy and not forget us,” she answered,
and his inordinate passion for pleasure. The son, who had been his
They's things in it I've got to try under sarten conditions that I
had snapped in their brains, and each one had to be shot for its own
gondola with silver prow and trailing curtains. The mere lines looked
allowed to ask my guardian.
when connected with Crime. That night all doubts about the objective
imposture upon my uncle had been a very innocent one. The youth was of
LORD CAVERSHAM.  And if you don’t make this young lady an ideal husband,
CECIL GRAHAM.  [_Bows to_ LADY WINDERMERE, _passes over and shakes hands
most polite to me. Besides, he has the appearance of being rich, and
dine with me.”
that all the mystery was much more recent than I had dreamed. It was
“Shall I love you?” said the Swallow, who liked to come to the point at
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
He shook his head. “Knowledge would be fatal. It is the uncertainty
“Now it happened that one evening little Hans was sitting by his fireside
“Nay!” answered the child; “but these are the wounds of Love.”
qu’il a tués lui-même.
would be a beast, a beast without a heart. I cannot understand how any
nothing, not with life in its ideal essence, of which he knows so much.
but I am.  And if you do what I ask you, I . . . will pay you very
Then Wesley Corey, who had taken the glass, cried out that Armitage was
fit to eat. Into the fine flavour of the pears and apples had crept
look exactly the same wonderful boy who, day after day, used to come
when brought up by a firm rein. Thereafter Ammi gave Nahum's tales
that. What had happened? He seemed quite angry. His face was flushed
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh, no!  I can’t stand your English house-parties.  In
LANE.
return to the society that has made or seen her ruin.
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Cependant, c’est terrible d’étrangler un roi.
hogsheads that haff shut up when they step ... nothin' solid abaout
something of that kind. Certainly. I remember the whole thing as if it
*       *       *       *       *
Then Miss Prism is a short-sighted old lady. [Cecily puts the rose in
w so much of the thing--and its
correspondence of those who attended, although scant mention occurs in
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Why don’t you propose to that pretty Miss Chiltern?
rejoined his fellows, and everyone watched the queer recession of the
things.
Robert, as yet.  In fact, I have not been able to do anything for you, as
ALGERNON.
You leave me no choice.
steel, and studded with coarse turquoises. Perhaps it might be missed
either cult or image, and now the detective had come to the highest
It must not be fancied that Inspector Legrasse had the least interest
shifted. Nahum did not send her to the county asylum, but let her
writes the address on his shirt-cuff. Then picks up the Railway Guide.]
used by certain forbidden cults which have come down from old times,
the end Legrasse was able to count some forty-seven sullen prisoners,
things of earth, for shapes came out of the dark to visit the faithful
[_He rushes towards her_, _but_ MRS. CHEVELEY _at once puts her hand on
LORD WINDERMERE.  No explanations are necessary about my friendship with
blasted hillside where no tree, shrub, or grass-blade will grow. Then,
away--draws ye--ye know summ'at's comin', but 'tain't no use--" Ammi is
of its elements and the eternal pathos of the human tragedy that it
unfortunately, had been dead for some years. What I now heard so
wife that shall be some day—yes, my wife!  You know it!  What are you
highly recommend to you. We could wax rhapsodical
ointment, for of all
well, too, which makes it much worse, sets such a dreadful example.
2
hollow that yawned close by.
SECOND SOLDAT
smoking-room_.  _A pair of folding doors at the back open into the
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Testily_.]  I hate this affectation of youth, sir.  It
LANE.
chant meant only this: "In his house at R'lyeh dead Cthulhu waits
magnetism, and slight luminosity, cooling slightly in powerful acids,
tears of granite in its lonely sunless exile and longs to be back by
face in the great cool lilac-blossoms, feverishly drinking in their
Ah! that accounts for it. And now that I think of it I have never heard
fame or reputation.”
too much to be wise, and that thinks too much to be beautiful. We
beauty is the wonder of wonders. It is only shallow people who do not
d the
order back the _Emma_ as they sailed about with their hideous idol?
never dreams of considering whether the idea is right or wrong. The
mounting; though the twilight of the almost perpendicular wooded hill
Dorian’s arms fell to his side. Paralysed with terror, he did not know
lui-même.
[_Exit the_ DUCHESS OF BERWICK _on_ LORD PAISLEY’S _arm_.]
d got tired of that by this time,” said
charred spot marked the place on the wooden shelf where they had been.
what peculiar madness could have made both boys jump into the well?
night of March 22nd. Pronounced well by his physician, he returned
wild hour of madness he had killed his friend! How ghastly the mere
dress had entered with Mercutio and his other friends. The band, such
having her forehead bathed with eau de cologne by the old housekeeper.
Weeping and waiting for the morrow,--
round the Gardners and all they touched, and the very presence of one
“_Fin de siêcle_,” murmured Lord Henry.
and believed he would try a trip to Dunwich within a week. Then, on
finished the sentence before from the far end of the conservatory came
midnight, and the coldness of the moon had entered into them. A long
the pale_, _thin_, _pointed hands_.  _It would be inaccurate to call him
rent of vapour had brushed past him--and then poor Nahum had been
table and came up to the top. Dorian Gray changed his seat and went and
be able to think, and walk, and live with freedom.
Dunwich people by giving any hints or clues. He hoped that it might
tell you.  If I had, it would have stopped the music at once.  Musical
forth to the night a pale insidious beam of the same demoniac tint.
young man might be rich. If so, marriage should be thought of. Against
s he not here, to
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Mais non, princesse.
the table.
shameful passion built a pagan church for Christian worship; Charles
the difference. I dun't need to tell ye I'll take good keer of it. It
one of the greatest things in modern art. I will give you anything you
LONDON
How extraordinary!
Corey.
m the bar.
“My dear fellow,” said Lord Henry, elevating his eyebrows in surprise,
particular individuals.  The only people I would care to be with now are
have, though,” she added, with a sickly leer.
Ones; free and wild and beyond good and evil, with laws and morals
just like that, especially when there are other people present. [Enter
she had ceased to speak and crawled on all fours, and before that month
last. George doesn’t speak to me either.... I don’t care,” he added
Finally, he came back, went over to the picture, and examined it. In
the young shoots, and for the artist and the athlete, the two types that
"My Lord," answered the Minister, "I will take the furniture and the
in the sealed upper story even when all the family were downstairs,
which was the nearest to him geographically. Almost eight feet tall,
receiving access to the Latin copy he at once began to collate the two
was right about that ... evil water ... Zenas never come back from the
called, ain’t it?” she yelled after him.
Mariner_, in _La Belle Dame sans merci_, and in Chatterton's _Ballad of
think he cannot be quite well.
he found. There could have been nothing from outside, for the small
r education of men is what I should like to see.
and kinds...."
LADY CHILTERN.  Good morning, Lord Goring!
about his mother's disappearance, and very few ever approached his
"Then fur ahead where Bishop's Brook goes under the rud he heerd a
“The world is certainly very beautiful,” cried a little Squib.  “Just
There are only two kinds of people who are really fascinating—people
whom he could question without impertinence, asking for nightly reports
watched it wondered why one of the upper windows had been made into a
a horse. Every person in that low-pitched sitting-room stopped his
husband’s dressing-room—he had stolen it.
Mr.
made of a man like you my ideal! the ideal of my life!
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I am sure they were for something charming!
He hesitated a moment.
as possible!  And as for trusting us, it is tragic how much they trust
suffering be an expiation, then at this moment I have expiated all my
and webbed feet, and was considered a great beauty on account of her
one admires it intensely.
I am!
36 ESSEX STREET W.C.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  But if I told you—
Alan.”
even to be left alone again, each one of the cowed squatters refused
the very place of the worship had terrified the squatters more than the
_opens C. doors_.]  And remember my advice, take the poor fellow out of
never say that of you, sir.
MISS GRAHAM.]
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Du désert, où il se nourrissait de sauterelles et de
week of pointless and irrelevant accounts of thoroughly usual visions.
probable. I know there are dreadful places in Paris, but Basil was not
But I thought you said that . . . Miss Cardew was a little too much
expected, and not to arrive.  I am not expected at the Bachelors’, so I
GWENDOLEN.
great central chimney, too, and fitted the rusty range with a flimsy
it burns ... it lived in the well.... I seen it ... a kind o' smoke ...
college for testing. They took it in an old pail borrowed from Nahum's
dreadfully dowdy that she reminded one of a badly bound hymn-book.
*       *       *       *       *
9
whom by so curious a chance he had met in Basil’s studio, or could be
LADY WINDERMERE.  We all have ideals in life.  At least we all should
order of ideal things it is
r things the specimen had done, and how it had
That my uncle was excited by the tale of the sculptor I did not
been poor, and never known what ambition is.  You cannot understand what
communicate itself to those external forces the very essence of whose
crinkled lids over black, glasslike eyes and began to sway backwards
Armitage heard the savage yelping of the great watchdog, and studied
LORD WINDERMERE.  Yes, you took it—and spoiled it all last night by being
particular region. It must, I thought as I viewed it, be the outcome
who formed a cult which had never died. This was that cult, and the
He was very much admired indeed.  “He is as beautiful as a weathercock,”
secretive of him!
pretense to literary style. What seemed to be the main document was
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I don’t mind bad husbands.  I have had two.  They amused
to think they were entirely unclothed. Afterward he could not be sure
splashed on in silence through the terrible cypress woods where day
think that, though you are going away, you leave me happier than I have
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_With an almost imperceptible start_.]  Did you
remembered, by a child of three and a half who looked like a lad of
slime at the bottom seemed inexplicably porous and bubbling, and a man
to use the tainted supply, drinking it as listlessly and mechanically
to me that I stopped my ears with cotton.
you see Sibyl Vane, you will feel that the man who could wrong her
finer attitude towards life, a freer air of purer aims and higher
"I don't think I should like America."
they saw him. He had always the look of one who had kept himself
re among those who were
past all coherence, and even isolated replies were almost too much for
degree of fear when a jocose fish-peddler tried the locked door leading
Did you really, Miss Prism?
of cowed quivering. In reply to a jumble of questions they only shook
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Returning_.]  I’m afraid it is very flattering—I am
Pardon me, you are not engaged to any one. When you do become engaged
voudrais pas souffrir . . . Frappe, frappe, Naaman.  Frappe, je te dis . . .
Lord Henry, who was scanning the occupants of the gallery through his
silver twilights, or rose-pink dawns.  I want to talk business.
“Mr.
with leafy wreaths and garlands, figured upon a gold and silver ground,
force that could bend trees and crush houses when it chose.
kept his youth—that was enough. And, besides, might not his nature grow
Dunedin, N. Z., which was sighted April 12th in S. Latitude 34° 21',
women.  There is no Mystery so great as Misery.  Fly over my city, little
L’esquif aborde et me dépose,
of this thing except in his own dream bas-relief, but the outlines had
God's secret as any one can get.
LADY MARKBY.  No thanks, dear.  [_The servants go out_.]  The fact is, I
ALGERNON.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Talk in your sleep, sir?
Oh, how do you do, Mr. Graham?  Isn’t that your aunt, Lady Jedburgh?  I
JACK.
storms and monster waves. On April 12th the derelict was sighted;
[Enter Gwendolen.]
For a year after that was done to me I wept every day at the same hour
seemed to follow him wherever he went.
ruin that time brought on beautiful and wonderful things. He, at any
room to see me was yourself.  Robert came in unexpectedly.  A chair or
against Nature--and he thought of those terrible last words of his
at the stony curb by the great sweep, and when a detective questioned
screamed outright. While he screamed he thought a momentary cloud
I’m not a Bunburyist at all.
So a body of twenty police, filling two carriages and an automobile,
called for a direct answer. The situation had not been gradually led up
could have been no mortal staircase. The very sun of heaven seemed
VICOMTE DE NANJAC.  Yes, they have a wonderful language.  It should be
place.
I am.
expected to give the unseen horror a moment of visibility. Two or three
cry of joy, and then he is silent.  At noon the yellow lions
hock-and-seltzer myself.
governess, Miss Prism.
should you be annoyed? I suppose she will belong to you some day. When
doorway into the tainted outside air of that poison city of madness.
little too much interested in him. It is rather a bore. So I am going
day, with now and then a drizzle of rain; and heavier and heavier
called.  I want to talk to you about . . . well, not about bonnets, or
“Do stay. You have never played so well as to-night. There was
by the crude wooden bars; and Ammi could see nothing at all on the
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
JACK.
which to escape them.
“And how do you like the Water-rat?” asked the Duck, who came paddling up
HOPPER.  But she said she’d like to come with me.
survival ... a survival of a hugely remote period when ...
much like some forbidden woodcut in a tale of terror.
unsullied splendour of eternal youth! All his failure had been due to
name. The listening was, indeed, rather a product of moments when
Caesar as he passed by; and, as Elagabalus, had painted his face with
have it off the bunch in a moment. But you don’t think of living up
iron hoops beside it, both half-fused, seemed to hint at the remnants
[_Enter_ LORD AUGUSTUS _R.U.E. carrying bouquet_.]
Professor
Ammi would never go near the place again. It is forty-four years now
CECILY.
less thorough craftsman. His mania showed itself only in his tight
Augustus is completely infatuated about her.  It is quite scandalous, for
of the most vital importance for him to complete the reading of the
an offensive expedition down in the glen, though they did not venture
egos. They are forced to have more than one life. They become more
“My dear Basil, how do I know?” murmured Dorian Gray, sipping some
pinafores.
lip, and for a few seconds his eyes grew sad. Yet, after all, what did
pastured in the lot near the house, but toward the end of May the milk
firearms and plunged determinedly into the nauseous rout.
and turned towards it. When he saw it he drew back, and his cheeks
by probity, hard work, and a sensible marriage with a good woman.  Why
“I will put up there,” he cried; “it is a fine position, with plenty of
wider scope, greater ambitions.  A woman’s life revolves in curves of
tongues of wood and is beaten with sticks that are smeared with an
strangely proud of the dark, goatish-looking infant who formed such a
True! I had forgotten. There are principles at stake that one cannot
the morning to Scotland Yard for some detectives to be sent down
LADY BASILDON.  Horribly tedious!  Never know why I go.  Never know why I
JACK.
GWENDOLEN.
I expected.  There is nothing in you; you are hollow and empty.  Why,
ancient road line, but encroached a little on the other side. I felt
“You swear this?”
delirium. Over a fourth of those who reported anything, reported
horrid.
bring Tommy Trafford.  Tommy Trafford is in great disgrace.
afraid of life—but you are better. And how happy we used to be
You want me to tell Robert that the woman you expected was not Mrs.
solution could merit even a trial. All through late August he fortified
evening dress, with a knife in his heart.
[_Enter_ LORD GORING _and_ LORD CAVERSHAM.]
do, Mason.  You can bring tea.
she cried.
recklessly.  I won’t argue with you, but I insist upon your asking Mrs.
would have publicly disgraced her in my own house.  She accepts public
the people around, who shunned all Gardners now. No use, either, in
should have shown more consideration. However, as I said before, if he
because that is a very old town full of witch legends I thought the
called to know if Mrs. Cheveley’s diamond brooch has been found.
given him rue to wear and bitter herbs to taste of. She has been
Gertrude.’  Oh, my love!  Is this true?  Do you indeed trust me, and want
We do not expect him till Monday afternoon.
Gwendolen! [Embraces her.] At last!
ey
furniture and the ghost at a valuation, and anything that belonged to
faint miasmal odour which clings about houses that have stood too long.
altar-stone on the peak. It is almost erroneous to call them _sounds_
horror happened, but he has never been there, and will be
him most susceptible,—susceptible to reason, I mean.  A rare thing in a
à la concupiscence de ses yeux, et a envoyé des ambassadeurs en Chaldée?
could be so vast. Then, very softly and slowly, the acre-great panel
gone as swiftly as it had come. There were even bold souls who proposed
superstitious rustics will say and believe anything. And so all through
translated it] that man is either the oldest or the last of earth's
masonry which can be nothing less than the tangible substance of
JACK.
gone back.  But now that I see you, I feel that nothing in the whole
down his great fur coat, and his warm scarlet cap, and tied a muffler
London knows it except you.  It is a public scandal the way I adore you.
ALGERNON.
Bunbury made up his mind whether he was going to live or to die. This
Lord Henry turned and looked at the duchess with his slumberous eyes.
whippoorwills outside adjusted their cries to the altered tempo while
stumbled in the course of my daily round, for it was an old number of
punishment, and if one is ashamed of having been punished, one might just
How curious!”
forgiving you.  She loves you, Robert.  Why should she not forgive?
negative result, though scattered cases of uneasy but formless
instances of it.
always be a sacrament to him now. She had atoned for everything by the
although the vagaries of cubism and futurism are many and wild, they do
their white teeth as they chattered. In one corner, with his head
young son been here?
around. Something glimmered on the top of the painted chest that faced
le crépuscule de la mer et qu’ils réservent pour les rois . . . !  Elle
horrible images and hieroglyphs. I mention his talk about _angles_
able to see the pictures, which was dreadful, or so many pictures that
sight; and hysterical dwellers ran out to cluster around the group of
ma main droite.  Qui a bu mon vin!  Il y avait du vin dans ma coupe.
of the harp and the violin.  She will dance so lightly that her feet will
help seeing the dead thing. How still it was! How horribly white the
n for
bother you in any way, or if you think I am a little too old now.
artists who dealt with him. As a rule, he never left his shop. He
in the throng, the police relied on their
"Up thar in the rud beyont the glen, Mis' Corey--they's suthin' ben
some aesthetic quality at any rate.
LADY BRACKNELL.
When Marsyas was 'torn from the scabbard of his limbs'--_della vagina
he snatched back the telescope. The whippoorwills were piping wildly,
situation.]
older standing. They date beyond body_--or without the
on there. I met Lady Gwendolen, Harry’s sister, for the first time. We
King’s musicians passing by.
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Coming up to_ MRS. ERLYNNE _and speaking in a low
HÉRODIAS.  C’est vous qui m’avez arrachée de ses bras.
sandwiches? Why such reckless extravagance in one so young? Who is
gold might shine by day and the carbuncles by night. In Lodge’s strange
shouldn't have been there; an angle which was acute, but behaved as
cattle during Wilbur's absence, had developed a wofully acute case
bring me his letters.  It would be impossible.  Oh! why don’t you tell
officials, and all they could do was to give me his Oslo address.
from the hills and wandering round the silent house, as though it
frightfully suggestive of old and unhallowed cycles of life in which
hole
LORD GORING.  But it is after seven, father, and my doctor says I must
had recognized him as the youngest son of an excellent family slightly
LORD GORING.  It is always worth while asking a question, though it is
He looked round and saw the knife that had stabbed Basil Hallward. He
perfume of the pink-flowering thorn.
partly human, beyond a doubt, with very manlike hands and head, and the
“‘Well, the fact is,’ said Hans, ‘that I was obliged to.  You see the
prefers it, for he knows that then he is doing good.’
imposture upon my uncle had been a very innocent one. The youth was of
of this thing except in his own dream bas-relief, but the outlines had
schooner _Emma_ of Auckland, which sailed for Callao February 20th,
winced. He hated the idea of even touching them.
to life.  People must adopt some attitude towards me, and so pass
which had revealed to him much that he had not known before, he
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.  Après moi viendra un autre encore plus puissant que
questions seemed highly out of place to his visitor, especially those
[Enter Algernon, very gay and debonnair.] He does!
The suspense became unbearable. Time seemed to him to be crawling with
CECILY.
goatish, chinless face had the stamp of the Whateleys upon it. But the
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
instantly flutter away chittering in demoniac laughter; but if they
terms.”
of the smallest importance in London at present who wears a buttonhole.
bell_.]  It is a great nuisance.  I can’t find any one in this house to
SALOMÉ.  Je baiserai ta bouche, Iokanaan.
of what Legrasse had learned of the cult, of a sensitive young man
riding on Brockley meadows, where she tore her habit so badly in getting
“It should matter everything to you, Mr. Gray.”
back.
kinship. They, like the subject and material, belonged to something
Yet all this was only the prologue of the actual Dunwich horror.
ppreciate in
that what that soul thought, they realized?—that what it dreamed, they
LORD GORING.  [_Bowing_.]  I did not think you would remember me, Mrs.
rejoined his fellows, and everyone watched the queer recession of the
one is 'Christ as the precursor of the romantic movement in life': the
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Standing C._]  I sometimes wish you had.
He flung himself down on the sofa and turned away his face. “You have
say.  But if after I am free a friend of mine had a sorrow and refused to
forgive me?
LE SECOND SOLDAT.  Comme il a l’air sombre, le tétrarque.
explanations, he set out at once for Arkham and notified the
ccurrence nowadays and that they have to take in extra copies of _The
moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could
are clearly hers, and, egad, I believe that if I were heartless enough
of the world, and that I was going out into the world with that passion
ure. He is the very soul of truth and honour.
Baglioni, who slew Astorre with his bride, and Simonetto with his page,
“I shall have to go home and get some things from the laboratory.”
unexpected shows a thoroughly modern intellect.  [_Goes towards the
immense slaughter. Or, no. He was not to go to the gold-fields at all.
was callin' folks up an' everybody was a-listenin' in when a call from
You look as if your
chatter and the fireflies come out in abnormal profusion to dance to
the two, and much the finer thing also’; and he looked sternly across the
curtains, and they appear to tremble. In black fantastic shapes, dumb
Dorian had whispered to her.
“Little better than a beggar,” said the Town Councillors.
un oiseau, un grand oiseau noir, qui plane sur la terrasse.  Pourquoi
horrible fit of terror came over him. What if Alan Campbell should be
prostrated him burst in upon him again.
Gawd, I dun't know what he wants nor what he's a-tryin' to dew."
madness stole around.
Dorian shook his head. “I am not cold,” he murmured.
of his country house and look at the various portraits of those whose
Did you hear what I was playing, Lane?
me the sun-lit side of the garden, and shunned the other side for its
tremendous, and the sources scattered throughout the globe. Here
disulphide and a dozen others; but although the weight grew steadily
LORD CAVERSHAM.  I wish you would go into Parliament.
something.”
invitations.
LORD CAVERSHAM.
woodchucks, and not far from the Gardner place bagged a very peculiar
LYMDALE.  How very interesting!  How intensely interesting!  I
a middle-class romance.  Romance should never begin with sentiment.  It
Dorian, for what I have told you. As I said to Harry, once, you are
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thanks.  I never smoke.  My dressmaker wouldn’t like it,
I am going to give all my life, to whom I have given everything that is
“why is it that I cannot feel this tragedy as much as I want to? I
warning, had claimed for it a certain ethical efficacy in the formation
were always beautiful things to look at, and pleasant odours to smell.
larger issues, wider scope, greater ambitions.
the United States Minister and his wife which had now taken the place of
him.
Bishop house, which was built before 1700; whilst the ruins of the mill
*       *       *       *       *
possess it.
is about them. Perhaps it is that they are foreigners. They all are,
into the Bankruptcy Court are called Algernon. But seriously, Cecily .
dreams, but then something had happened.
Every luxury that money could buy, including christening, had been
vipère rouge ne remue plus? . . . Tu n’as pas voulu de moi, Iokanaan.  Tu
him into the mire.  Failure to Robert would be the very mire of shame.
of defense which told them their lives depended on silence. At last
LADY BRACKNELL.
anything you choose.
“My son, don’t say such dreadful things,” murmured Mrs. Vane, taking up
LORD GORING.  Detestable.
Inspector Legrasse was scarcely prepared for the sensation which his
"The graoun' was a'talkin' lass night, an' towards mornin' Cha'ncey
the medical examiner, and the veterinary who had treated the diseased
and fore feet, and long, narrow wings behind.
spasmodically, clawing in convulsive and epileptic madness at the
be despised, mocked, abandoned, sneered at—to be an outcast!
certainly to be; though my memory, despite much familiarity with the
hope he treated his grandson better than he did the jarvies.”
and strained his vision to the utmost.
LORD DARLINGTON.  Your wife’s fan?
on them and said something in a low voice to Adrian Singleton.
"_Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lye
chiens, les oiseaux de l’air le mangeront . . . Ah!
“The third night. She had been playing Rosalind. I could not help going
companion. “I know she goes in for giving a rapid _précis_ of all her
I haven’t the smallest intention of doing anything of the kind.
every morning, after I had cleaned my cell and polished my tins, I read a
season, has spoiled for us the freshness, the naivete, the simple
"Nigh on a haour ago Zeb Whateley here heerd the 'phone a-ringin', an'
is personalities, not principles, that move the age.”
old house by the Egeberg. He could not tell--they would think him mad.
followed at once by a clatter which told of a frenzied runaway. In
am going to give you my wheelbarrow; but of
[_Enter servant_.]
whilst an architect had gone mad and a sculptor had lapsed suddenly
ever been before. Life has been hard for us both, terribly hard and
whom he could question without impertinence, asking for nightly reports
not come back to kill him. He had sailed away in his ship to founder in
there. The trees grew too thickly, and their trunks were too big for
PARKER.  Mrs. Erlynne has called to return your ladyship’s fan which she
erect and long hinder limbs throwing it
her for six months, and then suddenly become fascinated by some one
d’autruche.  J’ai un cristal qu’il n’est pas permis aux femmes de voir et
one can wish to shame the thing he loves. I love Sibyl Vane. I want to
anything if I liked. But my name certainly is John. It has been John
discovered unless you help me.”
“Ah! you must suit your frock to his flowers, Gladys.”
turned white_ after a perfunctory and inconclusive questioning at
149.
one but Ammi to question; for Arkham people will not talk about the
some gracious form, and let it tarry there for a moment; to hear one’s
fire-breathing silver dragon that the waiter had placed on the table.
y interest in politics then, will he?  The
“Oh, please don’t, Lord Henry. I see that Basil is in one of his sulky
Cathedral, as a charity sermon on behalf of the Society for the
"I guess ye kin git to Seth Bishop's quickest by cuttin' acrost the
“I am glad of that. But who drove him to it? You, I should fancy.”
painfully unobservant!
the true refinement and perfect delicacy that in art, at any rate comes
to sleep in.
that of love touches it, and even then must bleed again, though not in
and would not be surprized to learn of secret methods and poison
To lose one parent, Mr. Worthing, may be regarded as a misfortune; to
st impossible.  Personne n’a vu Dieu depuis le
bold flight, for the reaction had taken something out of his soul. Then
What it suggested, however, was of portentous significance to my
any way annoy or wound her, you will bring shame and sorrow on us both.
From her nest in the holm-oak tree the Nightingale heard him, and she
was made of Smyrna gold brocade embroidered in turquoises with verses
But Life itself from its lowliest and most humble sphere produced one far
the hidden cult, save from what my uncle's relentless catechism had let
stones on islands in the Pacific. They all died vast epochs of time
"We have not cared to live in the place ourselves," said Lord
either Ammi or his horse liked. The latter, indeed, had almost run away
tétrarque n’aime pas regarder les cadavres, sauf les cadavres de ceux
to him to be something tragic in a friendship so coloured by romance.
He had said that the _geometry_ of the dream-place he saw was abnormal,
They were made in winter, and it is summer now; spring-time for me, I
crackle out a final answer.
CECILY.
searchlight, giving dull reflections in the little ground pools where
thought it probable that others would be discovered as the enclosing
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Looking at him in surprise_.]  Lord Goring, you are
ther.  Good evening, Lady Basildon!
all. He was weak, and lying in a couch in the low-ceiled kitchen,
c variants of some diseased,
the ten-acre pasture. They walked and stumbled as in a dream, and did
tale. It appears that on March 1st, 1925, a thin, dark young man of
need hardly say.
“Perhaps you will tire sooner than he will. It is a sad thing to think
from dictation. I have reached ‘absolute perfection’. You can go on. I
are two things that I shall never forget. When I close my eyes, I hear
cried out at once, “Don’t shoot it, Geoffrey. Let it live.”
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Yes.
credible Witnesses now living.
tore and reverberated through those
type.
matter to them.
These are very joyful tidings.
Dorian Gray would never again be to him all that he had been in the
LORD GORING.  [_Takes letters_.]  Want my cab round in twenty minutes.
Influence of a permanent income on Thought. I do not propose to
either no woman at all, or two. In the third place, I know perfectly
_Lessee and Manager_: _Mr. George Alexander_
dead thing he fondled; Pietro Barbi, the Venetian, known as Paul the
be sorry for having said. As a rule, he is charming to me, and we sit
“Yes, I am glad now. I wonder shall I always be glad?”
of flame they seemed, rimmed with white fire. He turned them out and,
GWENDOLEN.
the face, “we have each of us a secret. Let me know yours, and I shall
shriekin' aout that suthin' heavy hed struck the haouse--not lightnin'
only people who make anything out of it.
swarthy, and the sensual lips seemed to be twisted with disdain.
CHAPTER V.
doin's"--from the summit of Sentinel Hill. Wilbur was growing up
mpression_    _March_ 1910
nearly up to the bowsprit of the sturdy yacht, but Johansen drove on
the sculptor and give him the rebuke I thought proper for so boldly
ible?
practical jokes any more."
At this point the first excited speaker interrupted.
MRS.
live in an age when men treat art as if it were meant to be a form of
she had made him go through, on that horrible night at the theatre.
through a round and curiously regular hole in the clouds before any
“The Prince gives a ball to-morrow night,” murmured the young Student,
“Have you had good sport, Geoffrey?” he asked.
sense goaded to feverish heights, he thought unaccountably of what he
LADY BASILDON.  Terribly trivial!  What did your man talk about?
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Yes.  But the Suez Canal was a very great and
chance, but I believe in it.  And as I fought the age with its own
few. All of these, however, bore out the notes in full.
went over and poured out the tea. The two men sauntered languidly to
I might.  [_Follows her in a bewildered manner_.]
Besides, my dear Robert, I should not build too high hopes on frightening
left behind a hollow spherical space about three inches across, and all
that is only to be expected, is it not?  His good father was just the
to the custom of the region made no attempt to disavow the child;
de trois espèces.  Un qui vient de l’île de Samothrace, qui est pourpre
the roof of my barn.  There is a very large hole in it, and the corn will
*       *       *       *       *
acid and even aqua regia merely hissed and spattered against its torrid
little hillside farms; sometimes with all the buildings standing,
party looked on in wonder at the terrible tragedy whose secret was now
DUMBY.  Experience is the name every one gives to their mistakes.
of the dying man. It was uncanny and unnatural--too much, thought Dr.
Gray. It was to tell him that he was engaged to be married to Sibyl
tri-dimensional earth--rushed fetid and horrible through New England's
Two gentlemen, who were passing in the square below, stopped and looked
red_, _a line of scarlet on a pallid face_.
“I don’t feel that, Lord Henry.”
Sweet-william grew there, and Gilly-flowers, and Shepherds’-purses, and
"Wal, all right, ef ye feel that way abaout it.
[_Enter_ LORD GORING _in evening dress with a buttonhole_.  _He is
Dorian looked at Campbell.
don’t know how unjust it is!
vice-admiralty's investigation brought out, and what was known of the
MABEL CHILTERN.  I assure you she is coming upstairs, as large as life
most horrible language about them both.  Well, you were silly, Arthur.
and before the year was out, he was running after all kinds of
HÉRODE.  Qu’est-ce que cela me fait?  Ah! regardez la lune!  Elle est
tedious orthodoxy, their worship of vulgar success, their entire
and sank back exhausted. His wife, bringing his dinner, found him in a
I beg your pardon, Gwendolen, did you say Ernest?
a low bow, and marched down to the end of the garden.  He had six
“Yes; she is a peacock in everything but beauty,” said Lord Henry,
Humility in the artist is his frank acceptance of all experiences, just
afterwards, Chiltern.  You have a great future before you, a great
in us.
As they entered they saw Dorian Gray.
ball-room on_ LORD WINDERMERE’S _arm_.]  Ah, Mr. Dumby, how are you?  I
day.  And so a child could.  But with me and such as me it is different.
“‘Have you mended the hole in the roof yet, little Hans?’ cried the
importance.
“Ah! what a trivial view of life!” said the Rocket; “but it is only what
once, so I feel quite safe about poor Augustus.  Can’t imagine why people
That sounds not unsatisfactory. Three addresses always inspire
of years rolled by. They knew all that was occurring in the universe,
beautiful, that an idea is of no value till it becomes incarnate and is
memorable sermon on the close presence of Satan and his imps, in which
dear fellow.  Couldn’t help it!  That woman can
LORD GORING.  [_Turns round and looks at him_.  PHIPPS _remains
their moral prejudices over their gross dinner-tables, and whisper
had put a stop to whatever monstrous menace had begun its siege of
he had been a king's son.  When one contemplates all this from the point
left.
terrible still.
chants and dancing devil-flames; and, the frightened messenger added,
The _Emma_, he says, was delayed and thrown widely south of her
friendly terms with the pit. They were both as grotesque as the
wealth.  I was a prisoner and a pauper.  But I still had my children
contrast to her own sickly and pink-eyed albinism, and was heard to
dreams ever
you before I left. I thought it was you, or rather your fur coat, as
deliberations. It came, apparently, from the barn; and was quickly
“‘Ah!’ said the Miller, ‘there is no work so delightful as the work one
sins, are borrowed.
world’s voice, or the voice of society.  They matter a great deal.  They
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_In a low voice_.]  I will give you any sum of
that beats in us at twenty becomes sluggish. Our limbs fail, our senses
darkening the sun as it slunk away into the shrunken and gibbous sky
every kind.  I hated both.  I resolved to ignore them as far as possible:
The Importance of Being Earnest
generally attributed to the Indians than to the settlers. Deposits of
explained it all to me. It was terribly pathetic. But I was not moved a
healthy nor decent place.
CHASUBLE.
about whom the most frightful tales of wizardry had been whispered
observed that the Season as it goes on produces a kind of softening of
back they stopped at Ammi's to rest, and seemed thoughtful when Mrs.
I am more than content with what Mr. Moncrieff said. His voice alone
trees along the rud begun ter git pushed one side, an' they was a awful
not kissed me—if we had not kissed each other. Kiss me again, my love.
temperament he wished to fascinate seemed to give his wit keenness and
chose, especially the much-discussed couplet:
stitched over with iridescent beetles’ wings; the Dacca gauzes, that
SALOMÉ.  Oui, il dit des choses monstrueuses d’elle.
years ago now, was standing on the table, and the white-limbed Cupids
if somewhat rough-mannered old bachelor, whom the outside world called
CECIL GRAHAM.  What is a cynic?  [_Sitting on the back of the sofa_.]
in hand required an infinity of research and experiment.
The "Dutchman's breeches" became a thing of sinister menace, and the
members, proved doubly exciting to Inspector Legrasse; and he began at
superstitious rustics will say and believe anything.
“Don’t look so angry, Basil. It was at my aunt, Lady Agatha’s. She told
ng was not
calloused to strange and unpleasant things. He and the boys continued
a good heart.  “Shall I take him another ruby?”
into everything growing now. Yet it was none of Nahum's family at all
arrived this morning at its wharf in Darling Harbour, having in tow
LADY CHILTERN.  Good morning, dear!  How pretty you are looking!
ground, and one side of the old red barn had completely caved in. Of
He was obviously quite mad. After a pause, during which the flock of
“But do you approve of it, Harry?” asked the painter, walking up and
in enigmatical sense-impacts uninscribable save as gibberish. The two
regret.  I have been wildly, madly adored.  I am sorry I have.  It has
purple pall, on which was embroidered in gold the Canterville
true relations, wondering what there was in frankincense that made one
him he bore the subject of his visit, a grotesque, repulsive, and
[Calling.] Cecily, Cecily! Surely such a utilitarian occupation as the
was fast taking form.
“I should like that awfully.”
Her guests this evening were rather tedious.
court, the streets of Dunedin, and the long voyage back home to the
LADY CHILTERN.  Ah! it is heresy to say that in this house, Lady Markby.
were glad of the path, for they could not have gone the front way, by
“How long has she been married?” asked Dorian.
left behind a hollow spherical space about three inches across, and all
around him he must inevitably have turned a total maniac. In the
became quite quiet.
“One red rose is all I want,” cried the Nightingale, “only one red rose!
“If he were not, there would be no battle.”
MABEL CHILTERN.  I am so sorry but I am obliged to.  I am just off to
know love’s tragedies.” And Lord Henry struck a light on a dainty
ears tingled to impulses which were not wholly sounds. Something
ming by some obscure, vestigial instinct
had sought for prey.
ch.  And now tell me what you were
ice were laid upon one’s heart.  It is as if one’s heart were beating
the brother who had been his greatest playmate.
completely caved in. Ammi laid a red checked tablecloth over what was
first secretary at eight o’clock to-night.
street. He dragged it aside and entered a long low room which looked as
rother! Cecily,—how could you have ever
you hold it to be a dishonest scheme.
"A HEAVY JUG OF WATER FELL RIGHT DOWN ON HIM"
LORD GORING.  I should like to, Miss Mabel, but I am afraid I am . . . a
most lovely gown.  Did you ask her?
After that nothing would do but that they empty and explore the well
that strange days are never talked about in Arkham. It is necessary to
their heads at the visitors' plan to stand guard at the Frye ruins near
gleamed at the corner and then vanished.
till Monday afternoon.
Well, I won’t argue about the matter. You always want to argue about
should live—undisturbed, indifferent, and without disquiet. They
better for it. I know the age better than you do, though you will prate
He will sell it to the jeweller, and buy food and firewood, and finish
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_Coming up to_ LORD WINDERMERE.]  Want to speak to you
off, Cecil.  Don’t touch me.
began to be bad. Then Nahum had the cows driven to the uplands, after
never have anything to say, but they say it charmingly. Women represent
pleasure, wears no mask.  Truth in art is not any correspondence between
of those whose sole aim is enjoyment, as, by all accounts, that
can clear off the earth, and I guess Grandfather will be dead then,
to good.
and began to weave itself into fantastic suggestions of shape which
have risen to some great height of self-sacrifice, Arthur.  I think you
is there, it must be tethered to something or else it would quickly
that he had to deal with one of those subtlest and most ingenious of
for Their mode of speech was transmitted thought. Even now They talked
ny
obey what his father told him; and Ammi thought that his fate was very
scene from a vision of Fuseli, and over all the rest reigned that riot
Tiberius, in a garden at Capri, reading the shameful books of
pandemoniac cachinnation which filled all the countryside, and not
myself in earlier days.
distant wastes and dark places all over the world until the time when
“I forget,” said Dorian. “I suppose I did. But I never really liked it.
associated with Uncle Jack in some of his philanthropic work in London.
Mr. Otis was a good deal distressed at Lord Canterville's refusal, and
When Wilbur was a year and seven months old--in September of 1914--his
est comme un mur de plâtre où les vipères sont passées, comme un mur de
[MABEL CHILTERN _is a perfect example of the English type of prettiness_,
body, they would have been the same....
not dare look back till they were far away on the high ground. They
Virginia blushed.
day Sunday Armitage was busy comparing formulæ and mixing chemicals
LADY BRACKNELL.
to-morrow night at half-past eleven.  If by that time—and you will have
[Illustration: ... and in the fearsome instant of deeper darkness, the
dingy sitting-room contained. “I am so happy!” she repeated, “and you
day have any really solid qualities, any of the qualities that last,
vaguely about the room. She made no answer. “Tell me the truth. I have
Upon what grounds may I ask? Algernon is an extremely, I may almost say
Latitude 49° 51´, W. Longitude 128° 34´, encountered the _Alert_,
Experience. Odd Idol Found in His Possession. Inquiry to Follow.
Hallward started back. “This is blasphemy, Dorian!” he cried. “You must
the world of non-visible beings, the huddled crowd at the mountain's
child, and has as yet, I am glad to say, but little interest in such
[Picks up books and throws them back on table.] Horrid Political
farthest stable a light was glimmering. Something seemed to tell him
love.  Your husband’s life is at this moment in your hands, your
her noisome crew had darted eagerly forth as if imperiously summoned,
then that they all owned that Thaddeus had been right about the trees.
Ammi described would be called a gas, but this gas obeyed laws that
and clutched the paper containing the alternative ones he had not
I suppose you know how to christen all right? [Dr. Chasuble looks
hellish outlines of the nameless monstrosity, puzzled over the unknown
its presence, it seemed to me that I had been foolish in imagining that
which he could possibly have received the weird impressions.
“This,” replied Dorian, moving the screen back. “Can you move it,
charming your sweet wife looks!  Quite a picture!
veterinary would approach his place, and the city veterinary from
very well, but I've an idea there might be a shorter cut across lots.
him and insisted that he cease work. He refused, intimating that it was
Their images with Them.
that dreadful vulgar place.
Everybody has nowadays.  The drawback is that most people are so
heated on charcoal, being wholly negative in the borax bead, and soon
DY WINDERMERE.  I did not spy on you.  I never knew of this woman’s
seriously. It is the world’s original sin.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh, I will tell you.  I wanted to interest him in this
ou are not going, Robert?
Winter came early, and was very cold. Ammi saw Nahum less often than
Arnheim—you remember the Baron?—used to tell me you had some wonderful
only thing he considers of any importance is whether one believes it
"My Lord," answered the Minister, "I will take the furniture and the
LADY BRACKNELL.
wholly of earth.
and at the end of the tests the
LORD WINDERMERE.  She should never have come here.
“I am quite well, Harry. I am tired. That is all.”
MABEL CHILTERN.  I wish I had brought you up!
Orleans. Good-bye, Mr. Gray. Come and see me some afternoon in Curzon
“He is weeping for a red rose,” said the Nightingale.
which he had blundered? He dared move neither backward nor forward, but
ow on the spotted carpet showed him that it had
the erroneous reading of a word so unheard-of. This manuscript was
“Because they are so sentimental.”
A week later Dorian Gray was sitting in the conservatory at Selby
six-petalled formal blossoms, beyond which on either side was the
Both of them, too.  Wife as well as husband.  Very sad.  Very sad indeed!
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Mind you take great care of my little chatterbox,
displayed shining bands unlike any known colours of the normal spectrum
it is elsewhere. Horses--the few that are left in this motor age--grow
of the countryside.
tare into space and
court of inquiry.
CECILY.
the dry tips of the lingering hedge-mustard, grey and blighted, and
could give him any private information of real value he would make me a
and bearded face gave all the impressions of maturity, a second great
Dining at home by yourselves?  Is that quite prudent?  Ah,
“Who art thou?” said the Giant, and a strange awe fell on him, and he
People used to say of me that I was too individualistic.  I must be far
and rough undergrowth.
have a pathetic scene with her, weep on her neck and tell her who I am,
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Is Lady Windermere in the ball-room?
too, the natives are mortally afraid of the numerous whippoorwills
s!
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Du désert, où il se nourrissait de sauterelles et de
covered page after page with wild words of sorrow and wilder words of
LORD GORING.  She is quite right, too.
incomplete text is used for the score.  The dramatic and literary rights
"That's all--not a saound nor squeak over the 'phone arter that. Jest
prescriptions.
curiosity; and it had set sail in great haste just after the storm
eet, a degradation to know, a vile
these were in curious fragments, and all that survived had to be shot.
LORD GORING.  Neither do I, father.
alled
était ici comme un hôte.  C’était à cause de cela que je l’avais fait
tasteless. The asters and goldenrod bloomed grey and distorted, and
terrible warning of its brevity.
does I shall owe much to this new personality that has altered every
he failed to unearth; and whilst high up on the West Greenland coast
the strange days the professors stayed away in contempt. Only one
THE END
He hurried on towards the left, glancing back now and then to see if he
UN QUATRIÈME JUIF.  Il ne faut pas dire cela.  C’est une idée très
were to me something apart from common life, a thing pure, noble, honest,
eternity. They had, indeed, come themselves from the stars, and brought
hommes d’Égypte qui sont vêtus de lin et d’hyacinthe, et portent des
LADY MARKBY.  They do, dear.
Yes; and that the happy English home has proved in half the time.
the bedrooms."
and orchards.
to every garden, but to the Giant’s garden she gave none.  “He is too
perversity became to me in the sphere of passion.  Desire, at the end,
They are a snare that every sensible man would like to be caught in.
was still quite covered with frost and snow, and the North Wind was
And yet amid that tense, godless calm the high bare boughs of all
from the Koran. Its supports were of silver gilt, beautifully chased,
cult in the mountains of China.
come and see my doctor, when we get back to town.”
Voodoo orgies multiply in Haiti, and African outposts report ominous
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  My wife!  Never!  She does not know what weakness
CHASUBLE.
As Canterville Chase is seven miles from Ascot, the nearest railway
LORD GORING.  Darling!  [_Kisses her_.]
friends, and nothing about my old ones.”
of the picture for being a whole month younger than I am, I must admit
psychology cannot explain us.
ALGERNON.
sent for the Royal Pyrotechnist.
that fell out of the sky
MRS. ERLYNNE.  No—he knows nothing about it.
will go and write your letter to the Prime Minister now, won’t you?
What woman knows?  What woman in the whole world?  But will he love me
being forced to kill them all,
go in much at present for religious art—but to-day I only want a
e white,” it answered; “as white as the foam of the sea, and
stones on islands in the Pacific. They all died vast epochs of time
[With a shiver, crossing to the sofa and sitting down.] I do not know
as a yellowish appearance which alternated with a sickly grayish-white
Bang! Bang! answered the Crackers, who were enjoying themselves
JACK.
the vestry.
“A blush is very becoming, Duchess,” remarked Lord Henry.
_2. The Tale of Inspector Legrasse._
cried. “I must go. I have to call for my husband at the club, to take
of whom had talked with the policemen, seemed at first as perplexed as
hing feelers came
*       *       *       *       *
CHAPTER I.
LORD GORING.  Well?
[Sitting down.] You can take a seat, Mr. Worthing.
came I almost fainted with terror. You may know terror yourself some
months’ notice.
and timbers of the filthy barn, caused a heavy mortality amongst the
never thought nobody'd dew it with them tracks an' that smell an' the
“I see you did. Don’t speak. Wait till you hear what I have to say.
me up. Let me take it along, sir, an' I'll swar they wun't nobody know
Peruvians that have the shrill cries of birds, and flutes of human
of women?
THE PREFACE
being.
and menaces to man's existence that he had uncovered.
mystery is as much of the spirits as of the eye. I myself am curious
“Yes!” answered Dorian Gray. “It was here I found her, and she is
LADY BRACKNELL.
young attaché known for his neckties and his Anglomania_, _approaches
“No red rose in all my garden!” he cried, and his beautiful eyes filled
not often reproduce that cryptic regularity which lurks in prehistoric
us makes an ass of himself, he is poaching on their preserves. When
at him,"--a very just remark,
Holborn. A verdict of death by misadventure was returned. Considerable
displayed shining bands unlike any known colours of the normal spectrum
However, he was so young that you must excuse him.”
For, while he was but too ready to accept the position that was almost
waiting for you there for an hour and three-quarters.
never know where my wife is, and my wife never knows what I am doing.
LADY CHILTERN.  Apparently to try and lure Robert to uphold some
avez bien marché dedans, vous . . .
as, looking like a bird of paradise that had been out all night in the
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_Coming up to_ LORD CAVERSHAM.]  Why do you call Lord
of the image of the 'Pleasure that liveth for a moment' has to make the
but that I see now was absolutely true, and it holds the key to
In the open spaces, mostly along the line of the old road, there were
LORD GORING.  That is the reason they are so pleased to find out other
turned out a great success.  You owe to it your fortune and position.
The wind gibbers with Their voices, and the earth mutters with
ever to talk seriously about it.  [_Moves up C._]
for some purpose. Slowly nerving himself, he finished his descent and
this time by day_! It's aout--it's aout an' a-movin' this very minute,
cannot say. [Algernon crosses and hands tea.] Thank you. I’ve quite a
as
cellar, some mineral and metallic litter here and there, and the rim
Cheveley.
thing could be covered up.
Tell it to come round next week, at the same hour.
Prism never says such things to me.
and shimmered over the sashes of the small-paned windows. It ran up
non-Euclidean, and loathsomely redolent of spheres and dimensions apart
fifteen hundred acres, I believe; but I don’t depend on that for my
far, far ahead; and a curdling shriek came at infrequent intervals
and she shut her eyes against them. Horrible animals with lizard tails
_Belial_, being heard from under Ground by above a Score of
Oh, they count as Tories. They dine with us. Or come in the evening, at
ghost at a valuation. I have come from a modern country, where we have
HÉRODIAS.  Ne dansez pas, ma fille.
raving.
be unkind, but I can’t see you again. You have disappointed me.”
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh, I like tedious, practical subjects.  What I don’t
splash--water--it must have been the well. He had left Hero untied
remind the public that we are not savages. With an evening coat and a
fit to eat. Into the fine flavour of the pears and apples had crept
painted it. What was it to him how vile and full of shame it looked?
ild sins, some awful calendar of crime,
not be lovelier.  I am very glad I have travelled.  Travel improves the
something sensational to read in the train. I am so sorry, dear Cecily,
“Very bad indeed. In fact I consider you extremely dangerous, and if
LADY WINDERMERE.  No!  If a woman really repents, she never wishes to
there was only a venomous seething astern; where--God in heaven!--the
ass the man was to get in front of the guns! Stop shooting there!” he
though you did not adore me.  And now you can get my carriage for me, Sir
shocking sounds and incidents.
the world may do can hurt me now.  You want me, Gertrude?
the second to-day.
down to the Duke’s—we tell each other the most absurd stories with the
country, if anybody who is anybody does. The country always bores me to
“Ah! I have talked quite enough for to-day,” said Lord Henry, smiling.
going forth to their work, or the sigh and sob of the wind coming down
prison.  After a time that evil mood passed away, and I made up my mind
not say things like that. They are horrible, and they don’t mean
There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well
the brier-bordered stone walls press closer and closer against the ruts
were modes through which he could realise his conception of the
CECILY.
Often, on returning home from one of those mysterious and prolonged
encore?
light, like a glutted swarm of corpse-fed fireflies dancing hellish
give reasons for avoiding the locality. In our sensible age--since
dare to touch her_.]  Believe what you choose about me.  I am not worth a
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Sadly_.]  And your ambition for me?  You used to
one of the finest pieces of oratory ever delivered in the House since
straight where the blasted heath is now; but people ceased to use it
GWENDOLEN.
Gwendolen, will you marry me? [Goes on his knees.]
detective silently called attention to something terrible in the very
BY
Your aunt!
began to suspect that he had been too dogmatic in his denial of the
It is some silly infatuation.”
HÉRODIAS.
some indications of the strange hill noises came from afar off, he
result.  But it has not been so.
before our frenzied eyes.
pretty. And they dress well, too. They get all their dresses in Paris.
safeguard.  You dear simple little thing!  [_Scratches out two names_.]
The truth is rarely pure and never simple. Modern life would be very
limited, and he determined to return to his own castle.  When he arrived
“This must be the deputation,” said the Rocket, and he tried to look very
Conduct, it will no doubt seem strange to you that I should select it.
which this trouble ceased. Not long after this the change in grass and
directly with things.  I feel sure that in elemental forces there is
erchants smoke their long tasselled pipes and talk gravely to each
“‘Well, really, that is generous of you,’ said little Hans, and his funny
GWENDOLEN.
of note. My attitude was still one of absolute materialism, _as I wish
opper-green sky gleamed
LORD GORING.  Women are never disarmed by anything, as far as I know
and felt afraid, and, going back to the couch, lay there, gazing at the
is a great deal too prevalent nowadays.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  You do, and you know that he loves you.
did she say in answer? Perhaps you forgot all about it.”
As was natural, the Arkham papers made much of the incident with its
And who are the people you amuse?
In February the McGregor boys from Meadow Hill were out shooting
told him what queer things the specimen had done, and how it had
Henry, shaking him by the hand. “Good-bye. I shall see you before
the ramshackle Whateley barn se
Chamber to the top of the oak staircase. This last insult so enraged
through two centuries of Whateleys, and which were fast falling to
CECILY.
visibility, and was now known only to a small group of esthetes from
and it was still alive after a fashion. Whether it had crawled or
we carry it to, Mr. Gray?”
engagement are so beautiful, and so badly spelled, that even now I can
world.
very thin and highly-coloured_, _a line of scarlet on a pallid face_.
Pessimism ends with blue spectacles.  Besides, they are both of them
matter with you on certain terms . . .
I am afraid I really have none. I am a Liberal Unionist.
dreaded volume kept under lock and key at the college library--the
wounded ones were carried away on improvised stretchers by their
stand in long rows on the banks of the Nile, and catch gold-fish in their
alighting upon the bank, he told the story of The Devoted Friend.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Oh, I love London Society!  I think it has immensely
seem to think I should be with him.
“Don’t talk like that about any one you love, Dorian. Love is a more
a trifle, or that the folk of Arkham would not speak much of the
the linguists was that the text represented an artificial alphabet,
send two of his men round at once. It seemed to him that as the man
there like a trampled flower. “Dorian, Dorian, don’t leave me!” she
the housekeeper about a room for him.
HÉRODE.  Sur ma vie, sur ma couronne, sur mes dieux.  Tout ce que vous
on the landing, looking very pale and white, with a little casket in her
rn, allow
served often as a pall for the dead. Now it was to hide something that
handsomely!
prints, but there was no longer any house. It had caved in like an
of character, had praised it as something that taught us what to follow
quotation run?—his own
Well, not till to-day, old boy, I admit. I did my best, however, though
des bracelets garnis d’escarboucles et de jade qui viennent de la ville
horrible ton corps! . . . C’est de tes cheveux que je suis amoureuse,
Those who find ugly meanings in beautiful things are corrupt without
CHASUBLE.
as he sat at the feast, to wake him with icy fingers as he lay asleep!
e told me so.
sir.  You have got to get married, and at once.  Why, when I was your
translated by him, I fancy, also:--
courage—I am a coward!  [_Sits down on sofa_.]
“Only as far as the Stock Exchange.”
litière sur le pont des acheteurs d’idoles je vous regarderai à travers
for future reports of dreams.
and a half from any other dwelling, that Wilbur Whateley was born at 5
moonbeams; but this new glow was something definite and distinct, and
“Too strong! Surely not, my dear fellow? It is an admirable place for
brittle globule found imbedded in the stone from the abyss. The samples
me that all my life had been narrowed to one perfect point of
together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas
[Illustration: "ITS HEAD WAS BALD AND BURNISHED"]
Then your wife will. You don’t seem to realise, that in married life
cou'd raise up, and which must needs have come from those Caves
hy and its ordered principles, and find in the
you used to have. What has become of the Frenchman, by the bye?”
born in pain. The mother snatched away by death, the boy left to
forth the prophecy of their return.
How clearly he recalled those dying words of Nahum's--"can't git
was covered with lines spreadin' aout from one place, like as if big
CHASUBLE.
Contents
was one of the decadent Whateleys, a somewhat deformed, unattractive
was not left unmolested. Strings were continually being stretched across
dreading to repass that ominous spot, I walked circuitously back to the
MRS. CHEVELEY [_Languidly_.]  I have never read a Blue Book.  I prefer
self-sacrificing character.  You can stand geniuses.  I have no character
The Picture of Dorian Gray
“No, you don’t feel it now. Some day, when you are old and wrinkled and
was, we always misunderstood ourselves and rarely understood others.
strangely with a concordant rumbling which clearly came from the sky.
table. “Come: it is your own handiwork. Why shouldn’t you look at it?
n it.] My dear fellow, what on earth is
the telescope, but saw only the three grotesquely silhouetted human
and pretend that they are in smart society and on intimate terms with
LORD GORING.  Thank you!  Would you kindly tell him I’ve gone?
It is painted in curious black letters, and is difficult to read. There
Chiltern’s house_.
there was no further change in the picture. It had received the news of
said. “He has a simple and a beautiful nature. Your aunt was quite
dreamed of her as a great artist, had given his love to her because he
You need have no apprehensions. Sprinkling is all that is necessary, or
read. The theme is original, and yet fantastic
gold, the largest nugget that had ever been discovered, and bring it
LORD DARLINGTON.  I do say it.  I feel it—I know it.
were old Zechariah Whateley, of the undecayed Whateleys, and Earl
underground: "_Cthulhu fhtagn_," "_Cthulhu fhtagn_."
I fancied that she had. The old Jew was persistent. He seemed
About 1923, when Wilbur was a boy of ten whose mind, voice, stature,
closely locked barrier. For what could be the meaning of the queer clay
He was never specific, but appeared to think that they were not as
maudits.  Ils n’apportent jamais d’offrandes au temple.
Mrs. Otis, who, as Miss Lucretia R. Tappan, of West 53d Street, had been
LORD GORING.  Ah!  Never heard of Canning.  Never wanted to.  And did . . .
Venetian-red hair; Lady Alice Chapman, his hostess’s daughter, a dowdy
LORD WINDERMERE.  You fill me with horror—with absolute horror.
"That is not dead which can eternal lie,
LORD CAVERSHAM.  No, sir; I have called this evening for a definite
is objectless on earth, that it predominates in the period of our
cabinet. At last he got up from the sofa on which he had been lying,
Oh, that is nonsense!
Editions_ (1_s._ _net_) _1913_, _Eleventh Edi
pretty things to wear. Besides, you forget, Mr.
_Watteau would have loved to paint them_.]
to me?  [_Sits at bureau and opens letter_, _and reads it_.]  ‘I want
noxious cult in Dunedin?
“Mr. Dorian Gray’s, sir,” answered the policeman.
ow.  Of course I am going
homme vient peut-être de Dieu.  Je suis sûr qu’il vient de Dieu.  C’est
always be so? ... You have a wonderfully beautiful face, Mr. Gray.
“Yes; you are just like that.”
alone.  The world has grown so suspicious of anything that looks like a
untasted. Lady Narborough kept scolding him for what she called “an
Irem, the City of Pillars, dreams hidden and untouched. It was not
“The old schoolroom, Mr. Dorian?” she exclaimed. “Why, it is full of
rebellion of nature, till I had absolutely nothing left in the world but
He jumped up and seized her roughly by the arm. “Show him to me. Which
and oiseau noir, qui plane sur la terrasse.  Pourquoi
whilst the long, curved claws of the doubled-up, crouching hind legs
which I would not part with? It is one of the best things I have ever
Uncle Jack, you are not going to refuse your own brother’s hand?
She flushed. “What do you mean, Jim?” she asked.
with ochre-coloured sawdust, trampled here and there into mud, and
Voodoo orgies multiply in Haiti, and African outposts report ominous
who had eaten nothing grown in that soil was another matter. Was it the
relating. He called himself "psychically hypersensitive", but the staid
is for publication. Nowadays a broken heart will run to many editions.”
my life.
does it matter?
sky.]
in the Temple of Baalbec, and the pink and white doves
peculiarly abominable quality about them which made their destruction
truth . . . to live the truth.  Ah! that is the great thing in life, to
“What is?” asked Lord Henry. “Oh! this accident, I suppose. My dear
rehearsal.  I have got to stand on my head in some tableaux.
imposture upon my uncle had been a very innocent one. The youth was of
"They's more abaout him as I knows than I kin tell ye, Mamie," she
The living man was clutching a horrible stone idol of unknown
JACK.
will suffer horribly.... Ah! realize your youth while you have it.
ocks,
petites fleurs blanches qui dansent sur un arbre . . . Ah! non.  Elle va
properties, and other things which puzzled men of science are wont to
veux-tu, dis?
anger.  At the end of everything Mrs. Cheveley got possession of your
é une petite boîte qui contenait des parfums, et une bague
standing for
not conscience that made me do so: it was a sort of cowardice. I take
Court-ball.  In a bed in the corner of the room her little boy is lying
The "Dutchman's breeches" became a thing of sinister menace, and the
not account, came over him. He made no sign of recognition and went on
Pyrotechnic, for I saw it written on my own canister.”
I had seen anything in it, more than that you were extremely
acknowledged thing, and all the basis for a cycle of whispered legend
heard the echoes of a burglar-alarm still shrilling from the library.
a-singin' an' laffin' till break o' day. Ef they dun't, they'll kinder
is there, it must be tethered to something or else it would quickly
noxious cult in Dunedin? And most marvelous of all, what deep and more
He passed over the river, and saw the lanterns hanging to the masts of
y do I remember now the one moment of my life I most wish to forget?
am going through? My God! don’t tell me that you are bad, and corrupt,
three least-ruined ground-floor rooms had always been sufficient for
A weird bunch of cuttings, all told; and I can at this date scarcely
[Thoughtfully and sadly.] Whatever unfortunate entanglement my dear boy
keep away.
the matter, you are certain to be arrested. Nobody ever commits a crime
of half-articulate _words_. They were loud--loud as the rumblings and
apparent.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Talk in your sleep, sir?  What does that matter?  You
half-articulate thunder-croakings drawn?
be the same strange ailment which had killed the livestock. He also
women grow old nowadays through the faithfulness of their admirers than
A country house! How many bedrooms? Well, that point can be cleared up
one, if she can create the sense of beauty in people whose lives have
LADY BRACKNELL.
LADY CHILTERN.  No; I have just come from the Woman’s Liberal
was not with the group, could have done justice to the situation or
Yes, Miss. [Goes out.]
college scientists were forced to own that they could not place it.
a thoroughly stupid thing, it
Francis Osborne, in his Memoires on the Reigns of Queen Elizabeth and
the weak. That was all. Besides, had any stranger been prowling round
I suspected that, my dear fellow! I have Bunburyed all over Shropshire
Mrs. Vane fixed her eyes on him and intensified her smile. She mentally
CECILY.
it—used it—spoiled it!  I am degraded in my own eyes; and I lack
LORD DARLINGTON.  They are quite perfect.  [_Sees a fan lying on the
and my poor dear sister were taught not to understand was quite
hearers years afterward.
kill--she'd jest seed the trees a-bendin' beside the rud, an' says
hieroglyphics, and heard the ominous syllables which can be rendered
Examined at headquarters after a trip of intense strain and weariness,
his grandfather had done upstairs four years before.
morning, Windermere.  Why should you be?  Margaret and I get on
look so well with your star!
And yet what a subtle magic there was in them!
to-night that I have saved you from something that might have been a
F WATER FELL RIGHT DOWN ON HIM"
their wild, weird stories of whispered magic have given them. Their
loungers at Osborn's general store. There seemed to be a change in the
[Illustration: MISS VIRGINIA E. OTIS]
“No, I will come down,” he said, struggling to his feet. “I would
effect you describe must
feeds on everything livin' an' gits stronger all the time. He said he
LORD GORING.  Because you haven’t mentioned the subject.  Have you got it
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes.  Have you found out at what time Lord Windermere
lull the moral sense to sleep. But here was a visible symbol of the
of the book. It was Gautier’s “Émaux et Camées”, Charpentier’s
and theatrical, and I wondered how it had come into the folklore of
JACK.
dim, hideous aura that stretched from a dubious birth to a cloud of
moment I came upon it at the bottom of a spacious valley; for no other
higher.
pleasure. I don’t want to be at the mercy of my emotions. I want to use
calls herself now.  She seemed to taunt me with it.  Robert, I know this
say, and I never interfere with what charming people do. If a
I heard in that damned den set me on the wrong track.”
Philosophy and study Metaphysics.”
been merely vanity that had made him do his one good deed? Or the
Good-bye!” and he flew away.
raising their arms in the rhythmic incantation. From some farmhouse far
Found!
significance. It savored of the wildest dreams of myth-maker and
CHAPTER V.
in a little low room, with a vaulted ceiling, and one tiny grated
are kept. He was more and more hated and dreaded around Dunwich because
CECILY.
make one do anything she wants.  How, I don’t know.
you are going to die.”
from its non-committal bulk. The crouching image with its cuttlefish
[_The music stops_.
past the great oriel window, where his own arms and those of his
“Who are you?” he said.
“So you think that it is only God who sees the soul, Basil? Draw that
be a rudimentary eye; whilst in lieu of a tail there depended a kind of
The Happy Prince.
Considering that we have been engaged since February the 14th, and that
on their heads in the water.
rate is always prowling about the house.
legends of a hidden lake unglimpsed by mortal sight, in which dwelt a
clever, too clever for a woman. She lacks the indefinable charm of
depends on your answer.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Silence!  I’m here to save you, if I can.  But I fear it
CECIL GRAHAM.  I want to speak to you for a moment.  No, do come!
MR. DUMBY                   _Mr. Vane-Tempest_.
blanchi, et qui est plein de choses dégoûtantes.  Il est horrible, il est
HÉRODE.  Non, non, vous ne voulez pas cela.  Vous me dites cela seulement
and ever.”  He was really very sorry for what he had done.
Spring Glen, would bring a touch of ineffable fetor to the heavy night
his husky voice sank low, while his body leaned forward and his right
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Oh, don’t say that, Arthur; don’t talk like that!
rose, petal following petal, as song followed song.  Pale was it, at
Here we are at your door. Let me come in for a moment. I have something
inquiries at his quarters revealed that he had been stricken with an
Chinamen said that there were double meanings in the _Necronomicon_
same utter mystery, terrible antiquity, and unearthly strangeness of
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.  C’est ainsi que j’abolirai les crimes de dessus la
the house, he would have been seen by the servants or the keepers. Had
the shrine on the _Alert_, is poignantly visible
CECILY.
The admiralty will institute an inquiry on the whole matter
On reaching the library, he found that it was just after five o’clock
answer, but he could hear the young man sobbing at the window. “Pray,
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Rising_.]  I didn’t think so then.  I don’t think
painful scenes of jealousy in public!
give me some flowers in return.  Here is the basket, and mind you fill it
that.”
HÉRODE.  Oui, l’air est délicieux.  Viens, Hérodias, nos hôtes nous
LORD GORING.  By never listening.
too fast fer the place, fer ef it busts quarters or gits aout afore ye
MISS PRISM.
Perfectly horrid! Never speak to one of them.
perfume on his handkerchief out of a large, gold-topped bottle that
we are good, we are not always happy.”
_Fifth Edition_ (_F’cap_ 8_vo_, 1_s._ _net_) _November 3rd_     _1911_
world between lines of nameless guards to a certain and familiar doom.
storms and monster waves.
their elders, which I myself have always thought the chief use of
thought, and that he might keep all the delicate bloom and loveliness
not punishment, is their mission.  Why should you scourge him with rods
one. His nature is too fine for that.”
upstairs t
The rich would have spoken on the value of thrift, and the idle grown
storms and monster waves. On April 12th the derelict was sighted;
not like other rustics I had known in the sections where reservoirs
stars, though this time his wife did not accompany him. It had now
*       *       *       *       *
Yes, sir.
grown up people would grow tired of looking for them and give up the
not make any formal proposal.
Nabby, Ammi? ... my head's no good ... dun't know how long sence I fed
beautiful white Christ which seems coming out of Russia.  And for the
Erskine plaintively. “I don’t feel up to the journey.”
would defile it and make it shameful. And yet the thing would still
another moment horse and buggy had gone beyond earshot, leaving the
fond of money.
t_ Arrives With Helpless Armed New Zealand Yacht in Tow.
After about ten minutes a knock came to the door, and the servant
e world whenever another earthquake shall heave
gives to my art whatever charm it possesses: my life as an artist
this person?
LORD GORING.  [_Smiling_.]  I wonder.
we might leave the two brothers together.
to the bores.  I should like _you_ to take me very seriously, Lady
n’t feel what I feel. You change
and for the first time for many months she really admired her son. She
speak to you again as long as I live. I am quite serious. I don’t offer
one.
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Quelle bague?
respected.  She was well born, she had position—she lost everything—threw
found? Had my uncle, in his latter years, become credulous of the most
et sont plus rouges que les roses, ne sont pas aussi rouges.  Les cris
but when I did so seemed only to be confronted by a greater and more
HÉRODE [_se levant_] Ah! l’épouse incestueuse qui parle!  Viens!  Je ne
And yet, what evidence was there against him? Basil Hallward had left
as my own. It belongs to Nature, not to me. Pleasure is Nature’s test,
long-drawn music in her voice, as though it were sweeter than honey to
a wooden doll? She is very lovely, and if she knows as little about
so real as words?
texts with the aim of discovering a certain passage which would have
CECIL GRAHAM.  Oh!  We all know what that is!  Tuppy can’t talk about
superficial impostures? I resolved to search out the eccentric sculptor
JACK.
heiress being carried off by a robber on a black horse, and give chase,
noxious carven statuette. From a wide circle of ten scaffolds set up
“Basil!” cried the lad, clutching the arms of his chair with trembling
SALOMÉ.  Qui est Élie?
us makes an ass of himself, he is poaching on their preserves.
Almost at the same time the mortality among the livestock commenced.
ambition and my desire for power were at that time boundless.  Six weeks
once to ply his informant with questions. Having noted and copied an
LORD GORING.  [_With determination_.]  My last.
as that of its ascent. To speculate was futile. Reason, logic, and
toothache, and I have got such a surprise for you. Who do you think is
UN JUIF.  Le Messie n’est pas venu.
ROBERT CHILTERN _sits down and writes a letter_.  _His wife takes it up
he fled down the corridor, uttering hollow groans, and emitting a
Triumph of something, I don’t know what!  I hope it will be triumph of
CECILY.
shuffled timidly to the door I could tell he was not glad to see me. He
“‘It is not a very big plank,’ said the Miller, looking at it, ‘and I am
“The persons are here, Monsieur.”
JACK.
obey what his father told him; and Ammi thought that his fate was very
I had largely given over my inquiries into what Professor Angell called
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Coldly_.]  Yes, I have seen a good deal of her since
Only two of the prisoners were found sane enough to be hanged, and
tastes.
means.
London drawl. No mention at all was made of the supernatural, nor was
laughed than for myself.  Of course when they saw me I was not on my
in all conceivable foreign parts; and the picture was a half-tone cut
is hitting below the intellect.”
which the past would have little or no place, or survive, at any rate,
the bondage of strange fever? What of all this--and of those hints of
me, my love for you. I think I should never have known it if you had
depends on him. Mind, Harry, I trust you.” He spoke very slowly, and
been in the barn. Ammi and his wife consoled the stricken man as best
prisoners said it had always existed and always would exist, hidden in
sometimes with only one or two, and sometimes with only a lone chimney
shrivelled to
“Don’t look so angry, Basil. It was at my aunt, Lady Agatha’s.
beauty of a Greek tragedy, a tragedy in which I took a great part, but
I beg your pardon?
country gossip was disputable no longer, and it is because of the
_January_ 3_rd_, 1895
coherent account could ever be gained. What the police did extract
power, and consequently they all appreciate me. Is that very vain of
replied, gazing intently at the little golden, white-feathered disk,
“Not at all, not at all, Mr. Gray. Ever ready to do anything for you,
been but a mode of death rose as it were from the grave when he called
Oh! . . . by the
Pray don’t, Lady Ruxton,” said Lord Henry. “Moderation is a fatal
ugly, when thought has seared your forehead with its lines, and passion
nd
with which Wilbur and Old Whateley always paid their debts has yet been
brings subtle memories with it, a line from a forgotten poem that you
nearly up to the bowsprit of the sturdy yacht, but Johansen drove on
“She was like a white rose before,” said a young Page to his neighbour,
were watched closely by those among whom the glass was passed around.
concave surface was a thick fetid deposit of the same tarry stickiness
_There is a look of wonderful joy in her face_.]  Come!  Where is your
and had wondered why Nahum had called it so large the day before. It
play fairly . . . when one has the winning cards.  The Baron taught me
invented for people whose memories are so curiously constituted.
Mr. Worthing.
to the custom of the region made no attempt to disavow the child;
little too modern, perhaps.  Nothing is so dangerous as being too modern.
not faded with the silhouette, and in a fearsome instant of deeper
Dorian Gray grew sick with fear. “I never knew her,” he stammered. “I
upon them in the night. It was voodoo, apparently, but voodoo of a more
in' ... an' on the wire we could hoar a turrible crashin', an' a hull
JACK.
spoke in a dreamy, stilted manner which suggested pose and alienated
JACK.
JACK.
All three horses outside, tied to a pair of shrivelled saplings by
ALGERNON.
the yard near the barn.
back that letter.  I’ll take it from you by force.  You shall not leave
iron hoops beside it, both half-fused, seemed to hint at the remnants
British artist. Did you advertise for it? You should.”
and gropingly squeezed Its gelatinous green immensity through the black
really nothing for serious men to do in cases of wild gossip, for
Lessee and Manager: Mr. George Alexander
his sweet melancholy smile.
seemed to cling about its pages and to trouble the brain. The mere
a rock chasm.
stray heifer, but he nearly forgot his mission when he fleetingly spied
newspaper readers may still recall. It was the publicity attending this
for what the world calls sin, so dominates a nature that every fibre of
It was hard going, and Armitage had to be helped more than once. High
MISS PRISM.
help you, mad to make this monstrous confession. I will have nothing to
hands.”
gas-jets, dulled and distorted in the fly-blown mirrors that faced
The old folk have gone away, and foreigners do not like to live there.
“How very silly of him not to stay here!” said the Rocket.  “I am sure
supper.  [_Rises hastily and takes his arm_.]  But I will sit beside you,
cylindrical drum, covered with the skins of great serpents, like the
discuss politics, sociology, or metaphysics with you. I like persons
birth who have, of their own free choice, remained thirty-five for
would.”
haff o' them that's left is sucked most dry o' blood, with sores on 'em
LORD DARLINGTON.
Dorian’s whims are laws to everybody, except himself.”
from noting strange parallelisms and drawing mystified conclusions.
the houses, everybody went about in furs, and the little boys wore
test again the disappearing fragment left carefully cased in lead.
philosophes à Rome se tuent?
n
privately for a moment.
through it I can see a woman seated at a table.  Her face is thin and
you by force.  You shall not leave
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Slowly_.]  You took good care to burn it before I had
I never let you know anything about this. It would have been
adjusting the sprayer which Rice held, and that something must be about
LADY BASILDON.  Perfectly tragic!
his time had almost come.
was a terrible shock to him, but we are friends, and I have not got his
the grey desolation outside. The men were frankly nonplussed by the
CECILY.
hand, judging from their appearance, most of them cannot be at all
opens it_.]  His lordship’s directions on the subject were very precise.
has ever loved.
GWENDOLEN.
into
Donovan slid or somehow propelled himself down or along the jamb and
tool-shed abandoned when the house was finally repaired, and like the
would not approach the barn. It shied, balked, and whinnied, and in
when they stood above a dying thing that had passed for fifteen years
was then convinced that young Wilcox had known of the older matters
their tiny hands waved to her to go back. "Go back! little Virginia,"
conversion of an idea into an image.  Every single human being should be
has twenty priests to feed it with honey-cakes; and of the pygmies who
something that I had not got before.  I need not tell you that to me
is mentioned a dread of something abnormal.
then?”
away far down in Cold Spring Glen. Then, amidst the dismal moans from
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Rising_.]  Do you count that to his credit, Lord
gives him a post of vantage_.]
who made the next discovery. Familiarity had dulled them, and what they
it dawned on my soul what it all meant. The knowledge was exquisite to
He struggled madly for life, and by a terrible effort wrenched the
school, that, when Chanticleer had sounded twice his merry horn, deeds
had stood beneath the tremulous gilt of its canopy.
and his honesty. I took leave of him amicably, and wish him all the
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Don’t go.  I consent.  The report shall be
far than any of the communities within thirty miles of it.
them, to enjoy them, and to dominate them.”
much, or because he was likely to learn too much. Whether I shall go as
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Mrs. Cheveley?  I seem to know the name.
handed down through a long line of mystical experimenters. Several
does it?
twenty at evening parties. Well, it will not be very long before you
HÉRODE.  Je n’ai pas peur de lui.  Je n’ai peur de personne.
s the earth
LADY CHILTERN.  But I like you to be serious.
How immensely you must amuse them! [Goes over and takes sandwich.] By
In a natural glade of the swamp stood a grassy island of perhaps an
“To define is to limit.”
“Yes,” murmured Lord Henry, settling his button-hole in his coat; “and
of ivory and gold. The curves of your lips rewrite history.” The
“Well, what night shall we go?”
that now smiled so cruelly at him. Morning after morning he had sat
life as she does about acting, she will be a delightful experience.
or you
and other rich stones, and a great bauderike about his neck of large
at sea as well as on land. What motive prompted the hybrid crew to
the "Cthulhu Cult," and was visiting a learned friend of Paterson,
Since his coming the history of each separate individual is, or can be
m’inspirent du dégoût.  Mais, toi, tu étais beau.  Ton corps était une
they lost the property.
CECILY.
Having locked the door behind him, he crept quietly downstairs. The
_Cryptomenysis Patefacta_, Davys' and Thicknesse's Eighteenth Century
mentally aberrant type. Most were seamen, and a sprinkling of negroes
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Smiling_.]  Intimately.  Did you?
have made it, something seems to have gone out of me.
duchess.
I am sure it has a long Latin name”; and he leaned down and plucked it.
whether there is anything peculiarly exciting in the air of this
anything else. It is enough to drive one perfectly frantic.
sont pas même circoncis.
“Basil, this is extraordinary! I must see Dorian Gray.”
Ammi's grip tightened on a heavy stick he had picked up in the attic
“She assures me so, Lady Narborough,” said Dorian. “I asked her
will you? I can't go! I won't go!"
JACK.
rhythmical crescendoes of unholy anticipation.
article in _The Times_.  However, I believe that is quite a common
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Egad! the women are very down on her.  I have been dining
I hope?
rner two figures, who waved their arms wildly above their heads,
never have known that I have given Mrs. Erlynne a large sum of money.  I
The Devoted Friend.
Hallward painted away with that marvellous bold touch of his, that had
remembered, by a child of three and a half who looked like a lad of
stone, magnetic as it had been, must have had some peculiar electrical
Margaret of Valois by Clovis Eve and powdered with the gilt daisies
[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
JACK.
and not to me.  I suppose he is afraid of a scandal.  Men are such
those deep ravines, and artists shiver as they paint thick woods whose
PREMIER SOLDAT
kill--she'd jest seed the trees a-bendin' beside the rud, an' says
was a psychological phenomenon of no small interest. There was no doubt
opposite to him at the club, the red candleshades staining to a richer
was so extremely susceptible.  Though I am bound to say he never gave
locked and windowlessly clapboarded since Wilbur's birth, had been
RCHMONT.  [_Severely_.]  Pray, Mr. Montford, do not make these
MABEL CHILTERN.  Tommy Trafford, of course.  It is one of Tommy’s days
“You don’t mean a single word of all that, Harry; you know you don’t.
[Rushing over to Miss Prism.] Is this the hand-bag, Miss Prism? Examine
CECILY.
And in this harsh world draws his breath in pain,'
ALGERNON.
console one for all the miseries of life. I love beautiful things that
person. I have just got a beauty of a frame, sir. Picked it up at a
them citations from theosophical books and magazines (notably W.
started for the door to do something, but Ammi laid a shaky hand on his
pictures and charts in his grandfather's books, while Old Whateley
I am engaged to Mr. Worthing, mamma. [They rise together.]
the level country beyond till it rejoins the Aylesbury pike.
jumped and roared, the general direction of the mass motion being from
visibility, and was now known only to a small group of esthetes from
bit it! You want to exhibit it?” exclaimed Dorian Gray, a
whereon Their seal is engraven, but who hath seen the deep frozen
had another strange colour; not quite like that of the skunk-cabbage,
But before many questions were asked, it became manifest that something
The nineteenth century dislike of romanticism is the rage of Caliban
just as poetry has, or sculpture, or painting.
commissions for Egypt?” he cried; “I am just starting.”
strange confession explained to him! The painter’s absurd fits of
consciousness was manifested, perhaps, in shapes and forms long
regretted.
own, Dorian,” said the painter, looking troubled. “Let us
endure anything rather than break with one blow this monstrous tie.  You
why it has no future before it, in this world.
I love to hear Robert talk about them.
of him to have allowed the thing to remain, even for an hour, in a room
one of the spare bedrooms; of the rector of the parish,
me—I was going back—but to stay himself at home, and to send you as his
THE END
Don’t frown like that. You make it so much more difficult for me.”
which has shielded him since the sun was young. His accursed city is
the family skeleton is always reading family prayers.  My stay in England
CECILY.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thanks.  [_The butler hands_ MRS. CHEVELEY _a cup of tea
vous qui
foreshadowed and prefigured in my books.  Some of it is in _The Happy
He shrugged his shoulders. “You are ill, I suppose. When you are ill
Morgan, whose sight was keener. After a moment of gazing Morgan cried
violence of Mrs. Whateley when Lavinia was twelve years old had not
light shook and splintered in the puddles. A red glare came from an
The following winter brought an event no less strange than Wilbur's
distinguishing characteristic.”
SALOMÉ.  Tes cheveux sont horribles.  Ils sont couverts de boue et de
think I can promise you he’ll be all right by Saturday. Of course the
désert chercher le fils de l’Homme.
removed and carried back by Legrasse.
[_Reads card_.]  Say I shall be very glad to see her.
keeping straight on to town. He did not wish to cross the blighted,
more widely known.
faint phosphorescence had begun to pervade the entire apartment. It
Sur le marbre d’un escalier.”
1925, when a scholarly correspondent from Miskatonic University called
omethin' from away off in the sky
had covered the walls and pillars, and from some undetermined point
I have lost both my parents.
“The same flesh and blood as one’s self! Oh, I hope not!” exclaimed
Season.
five by six inches in area; obviously of modern origin. Its designs,
Palace Theatre, London, in 1892, when a license was refused by the
Sphinx is not so incommunicable_.  _He is a mask with a manner_.  _Of his
that is imagined. The
had another strange colour; not quite like that of the skunk-cabbage,
Gardners thought that most of the colours had a sort of haunting
this seaside resort find you?
think, from his blank look of amazement, that he was under the
looking rather sulky, as with listless fingers he turned over the pages
makes a man a pariah.  I, and such as I am, have hardly any right to air
Christ.  It was always supposed that Christ talked in Aramaic.  Even
joyful occasion, and when I soar up into the air I intend to tell the
jamais assez, car ils sont très durs envers nous.
JACK.
dead, raced nimbly on in front, and dragged a hideous future from its
CECILY.
indescribable scene, she began to churn the lethal waters; whilst on
UN SADDUCÉEN.  Pas avec des anges.
Dorian Gray, and yet the lad’s mad adoration of some one else caused
past. The reception of his request seems to have been varied; but
will do.
familiarity, and decided that they reminded one of the brittle globule
weariness of passion.  Mine were to something more noble, more permanent,
nce. Make your peace with God, for to-night
Imogen is waiting for me. Don’t forget about to-morrow. Good-bye.”
everything that had ever been living had gone. Five eldritch acres of
LADY AGATHA CARLISLE        _Miss Laura Graves_.
cheek. He looked like a boy who had been tired out with play, or study.
deliberate bloodthirstiness and repulsiveness.
This is indeed a surprise. We did not look for you till Monday
was usually sacrificed.
*       *       *       *       *
to happen. The crowd stirred uneasily, recalling that this sprayer was
and drives the wretched man in terror from his throne, Guildenstern and
driven considerably south of her course by exceptionally heavy
“You see your servant made me quite at home, Dorian. He gave me
On the evening of September second the last major barrier gave way, and
thunder sounded from far horizons. Sheet lightning shimmered, and then
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_With a little curtsey_.]  I hope to let you know very
He heaved a deep breath, opened the door a little wider, and with
jade-green piles of vegetables. Under the portico, with its grey,
house and family. Throughout that afternoon they rode around Dunwich,
Not remorse in the ordinary, rather silly sense of the word.  But I have
least, I am always told at the club by people who are bald enough to know
the loveliest of the Queen’s maids-of-honour to wear at the next
feet smoking a cigarette and looking up at her beautiful eyes. Suddenly
does harm.”
I take the side of the charming, and you, Lady Windermere, can’t help
less thick. A dim though distinct luminosity seemed to inhere in all
g about success in modern life as something that one could reduce
[_Enter_ LADY CHILTERN.]
se! How many bedrooms? Well, that point can be cleared up
Gray_ that the great sins of the world take place in the brain: but it is
you, Lady Windermere—would you give me one?  You don’t know how gratified
young man might be rich. If so, marriage should be thought of.
horrible trouble, I can’t make out. You seem to me to be perfectly
which is so much more satisfactory.
afin qu’il puisse entendre la voix de celui qui a crié
over those verses which, drawing music from kiss-stained marble, tell
m floor ain't through, but is all covered with a kind o'
accompanied Nahum home with the greatest reluctance, and did what he
[_Enter_ LADY CHILTERN _in walking dress_.]
the scene of unholy
Henry, stepping forward and extending his hand. “My aunt has often
perfect manner of a citizen of the world. To them he seemed to be of
Love—well, not love at first sight, but love at the end of the season,
fragment from some Jacobean tragedy, as a wonderful scene
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Taking her hand_.]  Gertrude, is it love you feel
pomegranates. It had been given to him by Adrian Singleton. As he
me to tell you all that I have told you.”
endless message in repetitions timed diabolically to the wheezing gasps
I suppose that only a single mountain-top, the hideous monolith-crowned
LADY BASILDON.  I delight in talking politics.  I talk them all day long.
confused babel of voices sounded down the road.
and foggy.
front of me. Life has revealed to them her latest wonder. As for the
humans, and the unaccountable deaths of Merwin and Zenas in the tainted
her power. I think we were both rather nervous. The old Jew stood
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Can’t make out how you stand London Society.  The thing
Ammi would not have told the men about the well if he had thought they
I want to know is this.  Who is she?  Where does she come from?  Why
beryl eyes that crawl over the green steaming mud; he began to brood
on which the youth had found himself working, chilled and clad only
March 1st--our February 28th according to the International Date
loved, imploring her forgiveness and accusing himself of madness. He
LADY BRACKNELL.
by Black-winged Ones which had come to them from their immemorial
talk about the queer earth noises reached clear to Arkham--what walked
third, louder than any of the others.
seem almost a duty, and Johansen shows ingenuous wonder at the charge
not wonder that the foreigners would not stay, for this was no region
“She does not remember my short frocks at all, Lord Henry.
flickered out and left them dull and glazed. She tossed her head and
Thaddeus went mad in September after a visit to the well. He had gone
realise a thing in a single moment, but one loses it in the long
of the poor.  Those who have much are often greedy; those who have little
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Crossing to door R._]  I am going to dress for
a dire future from visions he has seen. A dispatch from California
Poultry turned greyish and died very quickly, their meat being found
CECILY.
s the only possible
would despise.  In a week you will be driving with this woman in the
what you did?
CECILY.
beginning, and parents cannot be too patient.”
edited the correspondence in corroboration of what he had latently
Literarum Notis_, De Vigenere's _Traité des Chiffres_, Falconer's
the subject-matter of the artist, but the morality of art consists in
there is only room for two in the brougham. You must follow us in a
could escape, for a season, from the fear that seemed to him at times
understand what you mean, and I believe in this girl. Any one you love
But if you wish to avoid a public scandal, write at once to this woman,
romantic charm of the Gospels.  We hear them read far too often and far
ough words could alter
so much to do, and go to bed early, because they have so little to
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Your reward?  Your reward?  Oh! ask me that to-morrow.
were awry. I did
The strangely puffed insects died about that time, even the bees that
the true story of their lives.
shallow and unworthy. And, yet, a feeling of infinite regret came over
admirable idea! Mr. Worthing, there is just one question I would
object do you think I have in coming here, except to save you from utter
that is imagined. The
An exclamation of horror broke from the painter’s lips as he saw in the
is near like them at May Eve on the Hill. The other face may wear
traces left of the blood-stain, suddenly there leaped out on him from a
me till I, too, am at rest; "accidentally" or otherwise. Persuading the
woman as a Nonconformist conscience.  And most women know it, I’m glad to
and the blue cloud-shadows chased themselves across the grass like
which he was told was a well-known haunt of the gipsies, as there was a
DUMBY.  [_With perfect nonchalance_.]  Delighted!
Prism: Mrs. George Canninge.
His name would appear in the Army Lists of the period, I suppose, Aunt
ALGERNON.
could change, and I could be always what I am now! Why did you paint
left and reeled out the back door into the fields. He climbed the slope
none; only the fetid greenish-yellow ichor which trickled along the
down and pressed his hands to her lips. He drew them away, and a
dandies.
difficult. But it will be different now. You are going to a new world,
they will forgive us everything, even our intellects. You will never
angrily, thinking that she had been playing some foolish trick on them.
horrible were going to happen to some of us. To myself, perhaps,” he
the best English houses; the importance of Boston in the development of
quite full.’
LADY CHILTERN.  Robert is as incapable of doing a foolish thing as he is
present state, Sir John is really a great trial.  Why, this morning
y two of the prisoners were found sane enough to be hanged, and
why I shouldn’t give you the same advice.
in the air. The entire Gardner family developed the habit of stealthy
“Ahem!
connected with any of the larger railway stations in London? I merely
night, had been found at the Chilterns’.  If you don’t believe me, you
had just made this strange confession to him, and wondered if he
nine-thirty, I hope. Remember, Patti is singing.”
as of a cloven sunfish, a stench as of a thousand opened graves, and
soul for
there is no such thing as that. Art has no influence upon action. It
off some. I wonder how I shall look when the earth is cleared and
Goring.
Well, let us go to the Club?
to any one. She told me once that they were all rather curious to learn
desires of the strange evil so vaguely threatening this planet.
contained such monstrous threats to the peace and sanity of the world.
My dear Harry, I did not treat it as a business transaction, and I did
needles as ruthless and as anciently known as the cryptic rites and
painting-table that was set beneath the high curtained window. What was
These words had formed part of that dread ritual which told of dead
Well, I am really only eighteen, but I always admit to twenty when I go
total; so that nothing was left to do but go back to the laboratory and
cinnamon-stones, orange and violet spinels, and amethysts with their
envoyer des soldats.  [_Elle voit le page d’Hérodias et s’adresse à
beneath the sea, known and favored by a nightmare cult ready and eager
value to either of us, Dr. Chasuble.
strange vegetable conditions, the unknown disease of livestock and
the waterfront to the deceased's home in Williams Street. Physicians
I am sure I have given you heaps of opportunities.
way back from Clark's Corners. There had been a moon, and a rabbit had
accustomed to wild tales from Dunwich, did no more than concoct a
could quite make out which of the two he was talking about.  He used the
speak guardedly of serious native unrest toward the end of March.
answer to my request?
the grey desolation outside. The men were frankly nonplussed by the
III
the Spring.  “It is your garden now, little children,” said the Giant,
flashed across his mind what he had said in Basil Hallward’s studio the
not so pretty as that.  [_Showing photograph_.]
I know also that much is waiting for me outside that is very delightful,
st the note of joy, eyes that are blinded by tears, chill
bouche.
consequently they never bother me. What I want is information: not
it a common Dunwich scandal! But what thing--what cursed shapeless
will have the theory also.’
manner. Accordingly, he determined to have vengeance, and remained till
superficial impostures? I resolved to search out the eccentric sculptor
subtly transformed him from an object to a subject of fear--though he
contemplate the spectacle of life with appropriate emotions,' which
and he is asked to grapple with the common complexity of cause and
it. It is very sweet of you to let me have your last afternoon. Where
vividness and darkened with dread of a giant monster's malign pursuit,
with hands; and within the circle of actual experience is my creed made
was not the basis of his creed.  When he says, 'Forgive your enemies,' it
the only girl I ever saw in my life that I would marry, I certainly
LORD GORING.  I am very selfish.
something about yourself. What is going on in town? I have not been to
he must, at the very least, have received more responses than any
once more be ready for Them. But at that time some force from outside
* * * * *
never shall read it.  [_Going to fireplace_.]  It should never have been
camp before Vienna, and the standard of Mohammed
accompanied Nahum home with the greatest reluctance, and did what he
“Here at last is a true lover,” said the Nightingale.  “Night after night
“Society!” muttered the lad. “I don’t want to know anything about that.
dream of a strange, dank Cyclopean city whilst a young sculptor had
those who have toiled there all day long in the hot sun.  Why shouldn't
still-like. We that heerd it got aout Fords an' wagons an' raounded
it. It had brought melancholy across his passions. Its mere memory had
black-letter page with paste prepared on the rusty kitchen stove, "but
wild gesture of despair.
y
the ancient gold
had set out in the late afternoon with the shivering squatter as a
begin with, I dined there on Monday, and once a week is quite enough to
house, for love is always with you, and love is stronger than death
of which poetry and legend alone have caught a flying memory
then that they all owned that Thaddeus had been right about the trees.
that abandoned well I passed. I hope the water will always be very
there I almost wish to kill myself forthwith. Johansen and his men were
is punished for the good as well as for the evil that one does.  I have
sorry they told you about the man. It is a hideous subject.”
much like some forbidden woodcut in a tale of terror.
but I am afraid I must go. I have promised to meet a man at the
table-like rock on Sentinel Hill, sustain the popular belief that such
[Picture: Decorative graphic of two birds]
SCENE
room in a terrible state of dirt, disorder, and despair.
ce had his cry and entry started up? Halted by
tween this and then? Or shall I write to
of the Church?
frightened. I am so afraid he will look just like every one else.
faint odors which he sometimes thought he caught near the stone circles
help, but they can not take body without human blood. That upstairs
*       *       *       *       *
chest heaved in monstrous unison with the mad piping of the expectant
famous for its agility; but still, it was a mark of disrespect.”
they had sought to escape; Nature, in her wonderful irony, driving out
[Embracing her.] Yes . . . mother!
To this day it sprawls open to the sky like a great spot eaten by acid
So a body of twenty police, filling two carriages and an automobile,
"Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimeras--dire stories of Celæno and
shockingly frightful. Behind the figure was a vague suggestion of a
The elder man laughed. “The only horrible thing in the world is
who I was.  It was ruinous advice.  It is only by realising what I am
CAVERSHAM’S _arm_.]
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What a tedious, practical subject for you to talk
swishin' saound got very fur off--on the rud towards Wizard Whateley's
dark cult totally unknown to them, and infinitely more diabolic than
Now, in restoring the abandoned upper story of the house, he was a no
don’t give my consent.
and creates that mood in which alone he can be understood.
Dr.
[To Cecily.] Darling! [They fall into each other’s arms.]
understand their nature. And, yet, what a great reward one received!
MERRIMAN.
these are all vacant now, the wide chimneys crumbling and the shingled
Where did the charitable gentleman who had a first-class ticket for
notes had not sudden death seized him.
North Wind to stay with them, and he came.  He was wrapped in furs, and
LORD CAVERSHAM.  If she did accept you she would be the prettiest fool in
can't git here, an' it 'ud be a mortal sin to let a red-tape rule hold
thousand things. The mere danger gave me a sense of delight. I
iron hoops beside it, both half-fused, seemed to hint at the remnants
rien au monde d’aussi rouge que ta bouche . . . laisse-moi baiser ta
“You are not listening to a word I am saying, Jim,” cried Sibyl, “and I
at any rate there are no horrid kangaroos crawling about.  But we’ll talk
and make her wretched.  If you dare to tell her, there is no depth of
looked into his eyes. He thrust her back. “Don’t touch me!” he cried.
nothing in the whole world is meaningless, and suffering least of all.
weighed out in the balance for gold.”
Well, really, Gwendolen, I must say that I think there are lots of
in commercial use, at Circular Quay in Sydney Cove, but gained nothing
some vague fear, he heard still further sounds below. Indubitably there
both suffered from the grey brittle death. Why was everything so grey
Robert Chiltern is dying to know you!
universal, and dandyism, which, in its own way, is an attempt to assert
they make one so demmed respectable.
LADY CHILTERN.  At what hour did this happen?
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Oui, c’est Hérodias.  C’est la femme du tétrarque.
at regular intervals with the flame-girt monolith as a center hung,
Kropotkin: both of them men who have passed years in prison: the first,
desire to reclaim him. I am not in favour of this modern mania for
“It’s quite clear that they love each other,” said the little Page, “as
brilliant Mrs. Cheveley.  Our attachés at Vienna write to us about
JACK.
To this day it sprawls open to the sky like a great spot eaten by acid
finest portrait of modern times. Mr. Gray, come over and look at
make that your mission, if you don’t mind, cousin Cecily.
ss guards to a certain and familiar doom.
he spoke he seemed to reflect some elusive element wholly unpossessed
philosophy of pleasure over some admirable Burgundy I am fortunate
you would understand me. Harry is so cynical, he terrifies me. But here
_laughing and talking_.  _Other guests come on from ball-room_.]
GWENDOLEN.
bit of black india-rubber.  The little ducks were swimming about in the
leaving them all in total darkness. On reaching the top of the staircase
HÉRODE.  Il ressuscite les morts?
warning upon the schooner with a peculiarly heavy battery of brass
tomb's cold clamminess. The bent, goatish giant before him seemed like
Neither of us could help laughing, and we became friends at once.”
shall kill myself.”
including that of the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe. On an anvil it appeared
discovery that would either make or mar his life. Then he thrust the
until one night when he drove past Nahum's house in his sleigh on the
ears, and Ammi turned away from the window in horror and nausea. Words
acknowledged thing, and all the basis for a cycle of whispered legend
sickens; of hovenia, that makes men mad; and of aloes, that are said to
minutes the resultant din and chaos were beyond description. Wild
--_Algernon Blackwood._
“Yes, Basil?”
life!
LORD GORING.  My dear Mrs.
the second phase of the horror.
magnetic, for one thing; and after its immersion in the acid solvents
handwriting on Lady Chiltern’s pink notepaper.  That is rather curious.
LORD GORING.  With you?  No.  Your transaction with Robert Chiltern may
in archeology. On the contrary, his wish for enlightenment was prompted
Of course to one so modern as I am, 'Enfant de mon siecle,' merely to
like tea-cake.
towards him begins.  It is really ashamed of its own actions, and shuns
_ and her crew an
he saw the children playing in the garden.
what have you done with mine?
against Nature--and he thought of those terrible last words of his
qui fleurissent dans les jardins de Tyr
the falling day and creeping shadows.
up at the statue: “Dear me! how shabby the Happy Prince looks!” he said.
top of the staircase and looks down at them as they descend_.  _Her
house in London. Yes, there were delightful things in store for him.
je sois comme le roi d’Égypte qui ne donne jamais un festin sans montrer
might fly between the twilight and the dawn; but for me the world is
once more be ready for Them. But at that time some force from outside
Mr. Otis at once insisted on her having something to eat, and ordered up
“But they are so unhappy in Whitechapel,” continued Lady Agatha.
heard of the cult in some indirect way, and of having invented a series
well, everyone went indoors and conferred in the ancient sitting-room
so.
propose to her.
Chase when his ancestral halls became the home of the American Minister
Adrian Singleton rose up wearily and followed Dorian to the bar. A
LADY BASILDON.  [_Languidly_.]  And were you interested?
me, who begin the day by going down on my knees and washing the floor of
“Far away,” continued the statue in a low musical voice, “far away in a
everything.  I have only just seen it myself.  It’s my husband’s birthday
and of the morbid vegetation that had sprouted in the spring. As it
moonlight that the little Swallow was filled with pity.
ALGERNON.
disappears is said to be seen at San Francisco.
accentuates the natural paleness of her complexion_.  _Gray-green eyes
world. The bad fruit of the fall before was freely mentioned, and it
lugubrious howl. A change came over the yellow, goatish face of the
How long do you remain in town?
of any kind. But I never dreamed for a moment of allowing that to stand
is like a
April storm; but his ministers on earth still bellow and prance and
should show me out.  Good-night, Lord Goring!
what we know. Nahum said somethin' lived in the well that sucks your
sted
Yes, mamma. [Goes out, looking back at Jack.]
yourself with your little boy?
selfishness.”
Those Old Ones were gone now, inside the earth and under the sea; but
The speaking impulse seemed to falter here, as if some frightful
“Monsieur has well slept this morning,” he said, smiling.
must be horrors of the mind alone, for in some way the second of April
itself and passion has its dreams. You may fancy yourself safe and
here was
dreadful name of _Yog-Sothoth_ in the midst of a circle of stones with
underlying primary tone without a place among the known tints of earth.
“Appreciate it? I am in love with it, Basil. It is part of myself. I
audience probably thought it was a duet. When Aunt Agatha sits down to
beautiful, womanly letter, asking me for my help.  You wrote to me as one
tussore-silk curtains that were stretched in front of the huge window,
[Enter Merriman.]
e becomes painfully effeminate, does he not? And I
tangibly to wipe out the human race and drag the earth off to some
Really, Gwendolen, I don’t think I can allow this at all.
fantastic dusk was never terrible till the strange days. Then there
room. He knew that when he was alone he would have to examine the
some widespread mystical or paganly religious body. When Professor
the boy, who may have had some kind of a fringed belt and a pair
watering flowers.]
£50,000 at Crockford's by means of that very card, and swore that
say; but the death had been at it. Everything had happened in the last
tragic. Worlds had to be in travail, that the meanest flower might
LORD GORING.  What do you mean?
s it was, I succeeded in tracing down only a
enough.  I insist on going into this room.  You have told me there is no
everywhere were those hectic and prismatic variants of some diseased,
roses. You will become sallow, and hollow-cheeked, and dull-eyed. You
"We must follow it--and the way to begin is to go to the place that has
found himself at first gazing at the portrait with a feeling of almost
Lord Henry smiled. “People are very fond of giving away what they need
aout o' the air it come from?"
“‘Who is there?’ cried the Doctor, putting his head out of his bedroom
For some days after this he was extremely ill, and hardly stirred out of
Sir Thomas waved his hand. “Mr. Erskine of Treadley has the world on
perfectly invaluable. If it wasn’t for Bunbury’s extraordinary bad
Vellum_)
night. It must be this which keeps the foreigners away, for old Ammi
of a flower to one who is mowing down the grass with a scythe.  Great
But the Tree shook its head.
She looked charming as she came out in the moonlight. That could not be
“What is it all about?” cried Dorian in his petulant way, flinging
ICK.  Oh, all of them, my dear, all of them, without any
MRS. CHEVELEY.  How very romantic!
curiously at the immense carved door with the now familiar squid-dragon
little, flowerlike face, a small Greek head with plaited coils of
MRS. CHEVELEY.  A woman whose size in gloves is seven and three-quarters
These data, received with suspense and astonishment by the assembled
that we strive to strangle broods in the mind and poisons us. The body
LADY CHILTERN.
Scott-Eliott's _Atlantis and the Lost Lemuria_), and the rest comments
I have done with mine as I think best, as I think right.  It is he who
awful creakin' an' strainin' on the bridge, an' says he could tell the
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Politics are my only pleasure.  You see nowadays it is
matter to them.
his own imagination that had made him see a look of evil where there
hideous picture and some cryptic writing. And as far as he could tell,
Mr. Hoadley disappeared soon after delivering this sermon; but the
and smile. He mocked the misshapen body and the failing limbs.
A Miss Fairfax has just called to see Mr. Worthing. On very important
references to some plan for the extirpation of the entire human race
into the Seine off an omnibus and that the conductor hushed up the
ever ring in that Wagnerian manner. Now, if I get her out of the way
making wonderful improvements in things.
anged round the walls. Greasy reflectors of ribbed tin
far, far ahead; and a curdling shriek came at infrequent intervals
[Airily.] Oh! I killed Bunbury this afternoon. I mean poor Bunbury died
the peril of casual perusal. During a walk through a narrow lane near
mattings of infinite years of decay.
costs. He could not run such a risk of discovery again. It had been mad
Amazing Stories September 1927.
ly
tremulous gold that chronicles the direction of forces the eye cannot see
no longer lived, They would never really die. They all lay in stone
“I have heard all about it, Mr. Gray,” she answered. “Poor Geoffrey is
o make a devil and a precocious monster of
There was a bursting as of an exploding bladder, a slushy nastiness
of the police for any antiquarian lore which might help them to place
antinomianism that always seems to accompany it, moved him for a
He shrugged his shoulders. “You are more likely to forget me than I am
“No trouble at all, Mr. Gray. I am delighted to be of any service to
There are no such things.
What about your brother? What about the profligate Ernest?
Music had stirred him like that. Music had troubled him many times. But
Acropolis, and clambered slipperily up over titan oozy blocks which
dens where one could buy oblivion, dens of horror where the memory of
Seigneur.  Ta mère a rempli la terre du vin de ses iniquités, et le cri
Virginia's little lover in his celebrated impersonation of "The Vampire
He had said that the _geometry_ of the dream-place he saw was abnormal,
produced in the mind of the lad, as he passed from chapter to chapter,
calculation of ways and means, always know where they are going, and go
“I can’t explain it to you, Basil, but I must never sit to you again.
the Indian climate, and marriage, and indigestion, and other things of
distantly to_ MRS. CHEVELEY.]  Won’t you sit down, Mrs. Cheveley?
copyright on this publication was renewed.]
LORD GORING.  Yes: that’s why.  [MRS. CHEVELEY _motions to him to sit
The hill noises had been very pronounced during the evening, and dogs
I now felt gnawing at my vitals that dark terror which will never leave
“Everybody I know says you are very wicked,” cried the old lady,
took most of his meals at his club.
Once more under control, the ship was making good progress when held
Since then--curious as it will no doubt sound--I have been happier.  It
LORD GORING.  That shows your admirable good taste.
The King of Ceilan rode through his city with a large ruby in his hand,
ILLUSTRATED BY
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What an appalling philosophy that sounds!  To
veux pas vous le livrer.  C’est un homme qui a vu Dieu.
th are you
[_Exit servant_.]
je vous les donnerai tous, mais tous, et j’ajouterai d’autres choses.  Le
for future reports of dreams. This bore regular fruit, for after the
always walked uprightly in the Lord's ways so far as he knew.
the well was getting brighter and brighter and bringing to the minds
farmstead in the valley. He and Ammi exchanged visits frequently, as
survival ... a survival of a hugely remote period when ...
old ledger was at length given wholly into the charge of Dr. Armitage,
did--speculate as widely as they chose. On the contrary, she seemed
r into some other plane
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  [_Fanning herself_.]  The air is so pleasant there.
V
me in halting English that Gustaf Johansen was no more.
emerald at the red shambles of the circus and then, in a litter of
student’s garret.  It was easy enough to get in, as there was a hole in
the portents of storm. The chanting of the men from Arkham now became
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Have you been thinking over what I spoke to you about
Roman letters as best he knew how. But just now of prime significance
LADY WINDERMERE.  I think that you spend your money strangely.  That is
the hilltops. He came of a line where tradition ran strong, and his
“They are both simply forms of imitation,” remarked Lord Henry. “But do
anything but Mrs. Erlynne.
up by the _Alert_ on March 22nd, and I could feel the mate's regret as
extra bar across it. Ammi shook no less, and had to tug and point for
The painter turned to his servant, who stood blinking in the sunlight.
you are very hard on modern life, Lady Windermere.  Of course there is
had issued warnings of the keenest intensity to all librarians having
who formed a cult which had never died. This was that cult, and the
LADY CHILTERN.  Why did you wish to meet my husband, Mrs. Cheveley?
invented an invaluable permanent invalid called Bunbury, in order that
in one of the sheds, and Sawyer thought he seemed unusually worried
He winced and, taking up from the table an oval glass framed in ivory
“They are more cunning than practical. When they make up their ledger,
death. I am glad I am living in a century when such wonders happen.
LORD GORING.  Mrs. Cheveley!  Great heavens! . . . May I ask what you
brought to King Perozes, and had slain the thief, and mourned for seven
unconsciousness and delirium. My uncle at once telephoned the family,
followed his pipe, laughing. Dorian Gray never took his gaze off him,
well. They had heard the common country talk, it is true; but could not
of a wicked French novel, meant specially for the English market.
I had not the courage to come down, show you my wounds, tell you my
6
Whateley saw how things stood, and tried to answer lightly.
Windermere.
ALGERNON.
LADY WINDERMERE.  You are right—you are terribly right.  But where am I
always depresses me.  So I am afraid I must leave you.
heard a fright-mad voice shriek out, "Help, oh, my Gawd!..." and some
'famous final victory,' in such a clear note of lyrical beauty, has not a
“Never.”
At the end of the room there was a little staircase, leading to a
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_With a slight shudder_.]  Hush, last night is quite
are both engaged to be married to your brother Ernest, so it is a
serpent il sortira un basilic, et ce qui en naîtra dévorera les oiseaux.
remain in open pasturage.
JACK.
"Lavinny's black brat" had commenced to talk, and at the age of only
one of the first to be approached by the several outsiders who took
I may be able to go down into the country whenever I choose. Bunbury is
house in London. Yes, there were delightful things in store for him.
Well, I own a house in Belgrave Square, but it is let by the year to
Boucher—that is stretched on the staircase wall_.  _On the right is the
out of drawing, or you won’t like his tone of colour, or something. You
at all, since so much of their ghastly, infra-bass timbre spoke to
Other traditions tell of foul odors near the hill-crowning circles of
pain. Then I feel, Harry, that I have given away my whole soul to some
runs in families. You had much better say a severe chill.
The prison style is absolutely and entirely wrong.  I would give anything
could not bear your doing either of those two things. If you wish me
“Dorian is far too wise not to do foolish things now and then, my dear
singular persistence. Six times within an hour the farmer saw the
Good heavens! it was Dorian Gray’s own face that he was looking at! The
turned to Hallward and said, “My dear fellow, I have just remembered.”
th in Arkham. He was
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Yes; here is the Prime Minister’s letter.  [_Hands
imagination entirely did Jesus of Nazareth create himself.  The cry of
imaginative, and his restlessness was worse after the shutting away of
the shallow people. What they call their loyalty, and their fidelity, I
GWENDOLEN.
of Professor Webb.
while dressed for the part of "Black Isaac, or the Huntsman of Hogley
something equally boring.  Could you let me have a list?  I have a
terrible than those which had reduced the group of natives to a state
ALGERNON.
I had no clue, no trace. The two people who could have described you
bid him good-bye.
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  On ne sait jamais, princesse.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_To_ LORD GORING.]  Do sit down.  I am so glad you have
gaiety in his manner as he sat at table, but now and then a thrill of
all. Less inexplicable was his fitting-up of another downstairs room
you or I say to each other.
symbolic relation to the very secret of life.  For the secret of life is
telepathic instant?
accepting the standard of one’s age. I consider that for any man of
The first half of the principal manuscript told a very peculiar
“There is a way,” answered the Tree; “but it is so terrible that I dare
which lay toward the end of their short cut, and among whose fantastic
and careful study, was between seven and eight inches in height, and of
shook the house, a strain of unearthly music floated through the air, a
At length the squatter settlement, a miserable huddle of huts, hove in
“I am not surprised.”
gossip. Thaddeus, an especially sensitive youth, suffered the most.
begun by vivisecting himself, as he had ended by vivisecting others.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Rising_.]  Mrs. Cheveley!  Coming to see me?
exit C._]
some disjointed fragments evidently taken from the _Necronomicon_,
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_With a sneer_.]  Oh, there is only one real tragedy in
feebly rise, only to sink down again upon the place from which the
w so much of the thing--and its
HÉRODIAS.  C’est bien dit, ma fille!  Vous, vous êtes ridicule avec vos
“I could not get rid of her. She brought me up to royalties, and people
opened and he heard his slow musical voice lending charm to some
that the greater city masqueraded as "Christiania." I made the brief
superstitious rustics will say and believe anything.
backwat
was like the globule and the plants. After that had come the runaway
repassed with snail-like deliberateness. Then it was obvious that the
began to give inward at the top; and they saw that it was balanced.
ago, had seen it in the crazy vegetation of the springtime, and had
left the room his eyes wandered in the direction of the screen. Or was
CECIL GRAHAM.  You’ll play, of course, Tuppy?
LORD GORING.  Extraordinary thing about the lower classes in England—they
came a period when people were curious enough to steal up and count
e after page with wild words of sorrow and wilder words of
LORD GORING.  Mrs. Cheveley was concealed in a room adjoining my library,
want it, and I really do.”
not be delighted to change places with you.”
prescriptions. He was an excellent musician, however, as well, and
sted a more indescribable horde of human abnormality than any but a
me: for that phrase would savour of too great bitterness towards myself.
the poet must sing, and the sculptor think in bronze, and the painter
don’t speak!  Say nothing!  Your voice wakes terrible memories—memories
and abstracted manner. From time to time the butler filled his glass
de poil, et la lune deviendra comme du sang, et les étoiles du ciel
cap of silver tissue, and she was as pale as the Snow Palace in which she
MABEL CHILTERN.  Just when I have come in!  What dreadful manners you
the cult in some casual way, and had soon forgotten it amidst the mass
accustomed to work at. And, remember, it is the only piece of evidence
coloured parasols danced and dipped like monstrous butterflies.
tué!  Il s’est tué, celui qui était mon ami!  Je lui avais donné une
Well, he said at dinner on Wednesday night, that you would have to
The strangely puffed insects died about that time, even the bees that
be the only two fashionable religions left to us nowadays.
incomplete, is to absorb into my nature all that has been done to me, to
“Mr. Dorian Gray? Who is he?” asked Lord Fermor, knitting his bushy
questions about the district. He was far brighter and more educated
think it's the Lord's judgment fer our iniquities, that no mortal kin
more fortunate than I am.
“Ah! what a nuisance people’s people are! Try and make him come. By the
paounded daown into the rud. An' the smell was awful, like what it is
No, sir; it is not a very interesting subject. I never think of it
cried Lady Narborough from the door. “If you do, we are sure to
waiting to be seen and heard. Nahum would go soon, and he wanted Ammi
the doors of the silent houses. The crimson spot of a prowling hansom
of foul flame, and lambent tricklings of the same monstrous fire were
comparatively young as he is. I know no one who has a higher sense of
you could have succeeded just as well.
by the almost unpronounceable jumble of letters, "_Cthulhu fhtagn_".
vestibule, was urging them for their own sakes to postpone entrance to
bewildered by what you have just told me. To be born, or at any rate
less huddling together of families. In the morning both the Frye and
letters. One of them was from Lord Henry, and had been brought by hand
House of Lords is so sensible.  An assembly of gentlemen.
to hear the one when the source should yield the other. Animal fury
through centuries. The name "blasted heath" seemed to me very odd
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_After a pause_.]  Lord Goring merely rang that you
Guerrera and Angstrom. Parker slipped as the other three were plunging
the triumph of matter over mind, just as men represent the triumph of
in gold pieces of extremely ancient date.
boucliers d’or et des casques d’argent, et qui ont de grand corps?
professor that it must be identical with the nameless monstrosity
telepathic instant? The Thing of the idols, the green, sticky spawn of
He was an extremely clever young man, though he had no real
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Will you go out on the terrace and look at the
written, or badly written. That is all.
Good heavens! [Motions Algernon away.]
The painter stared at him. “My dear boy, what nonsense!” he cried. “Do
to what he saw in it of censure or rebuke, how shallow Basil’s
above the prison walls and are so restless in the wind.  Between my art
hes romains qui se tuaient.  N’est-ce pas, Tigellin, que les
’s face a mask of glass, nor keep the sulphurous
LORD DARLINGTON.  Well then, setting aside mercenary people, who, of
“There was the Miller with a large sack of flour on his back.
HÉRODIAS.  Je trouve qu’elle a bien raison.  Pourquoi la regardez-vous
rate, had escaped that.
decoration to charm his vanity, an ornament for a summer’s day.”
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Leaning over the back of the chair_.]  Aren’t you
thought I might possibly have dropped it here.
and his honesty. I took leave of him amicably, and wish him all the
as unlit and empty, with a cloud of soot
puzzled as did this fraction. It is well that no explanation shall ever
schooner _Emma_ of Auckland, which sailed for Callao February 20th,
of an almost complete separation of passion and intellect_, _as though
Mr. Hallward?’ she screamed out. You know her curiously shrill voice?”
“Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “far away across the
being so proper, invites her!  How extremely amusing!  It takes a
There’s a sensible, intellectual girl! the only girl I ever cared for
get into it do that. [To Cecily.] Dear child, of course you know that
_flowers_, _and brilliant lights_.  _Room crowded with guests_.  _Lady
their native land adopt an appearance of chronic ill-health, under the
but perfectly conscious and able to give simple orders to Zenas. The
of feverish rushing up and down between wheels and engines to get
him.
in a great pool of water, and was brought back by them to the cottage.
to withdraw the report that you had intended to lay before the House, on
HOPPER.
and falling to pieces before they died, and their eyes and muzzles
plumes de perroquets, et le roi de Numidie une robe faite de plumes
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Aside_.]  She is here after all!
and a beautiful light seemed to illumine her face.
faith, but on one side only; devotion, but on one side only, and in which
Mr. Hopper.
most dreadful things are being said against you in London.”
New Jersey, the curator of a local museum and a mineralogist of note.
could hear a sort of muffled swishing or lapping sound from somewhere
besides, I have got a new wheelbarrow for myself.  Yes, you may set your
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Dear Margaret, I’ve just been having such a
improved.  It is entirely composed now of beautiful idiots and brilliant
there was only a venomous seething astern; where--God in heaven!--the
nightingale began to sing.
only their names remain as a key to the origin they disgrace. Some of
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Humph!  Never know when you are serious or not.
then.
and what was meant by that phrase "strange days" which so many
LORD GORING.  Well?
mpanions, and astounding the county by the wanton
at all that I have ever been christened by anybody. I should think it
JACK.
brittle globule found imbedded in the stone from the abyss. The samples
“‘Little Hans is certainly a great loss to every one,’ said the
But what first made you think of doing such a thing?
[Gwendolen and Cecily are at the window, looking out into the garden.]
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  On dit qu’il est en Samarie à présent.
gossips would not credit this. Certainly, however, restlessness was
that, Lady Chiltern.
alleys between them, and the floor was too soft with the dank moss and
It can wait, Merriman for . . . five minutes.
years, and he has never once told me that I was morbid.  Men are so
rous of you, Lady Bracknell. My own decision, however,
neurotic and excited aspect had called upon Professor Angell bearing
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Non, c’étaient des lépreux.  Mais il a guéri des
than look at each other’s bonnets, Lord Goring.
t_ Arrives With Helpless Armed New Zealand Yacht in Tow.
can never touch you.  Arthur, you can go to Mabel, and you have my
of unhallowed rites and conclaves of the Indians, amidst which they
of the countryside.
for the morrow; is not the soul more than meat?
me.  Linnaeus fell on his knees and wept for joy when he saw for the
woods that no axe has ever cut.
and I know that panic would have broken loose had they been able to
LORD DARLINGTON.  Oh!—we all want friends at times.
LORD GORING.  [_Taking hold of her hand_.]  Mabel, I have told you that I
Dear Duchess, and how is the Duke?  Brain still weak, I suppose?  Well,
Then he leaped up and went to the door. “Yes,” he cried, “you have
of wine.  I went down the primrose path to the sound of flutes.  I lived
a most terrible thing, and would spoil anybody’s nature.  I certainly
LADY BRACKNELL.
passion. Her prince, Prince Charming, was with her. She had called on
myself, and knew the latest Court news.”
olphins
these western woods were not feared half so much as the small island
LORD GORING.  Lady Chiltern, why are you playing Mrs. Cheveley’s cards?
at I had
these years. He seemed slightly proud of the notice his place had
public infamy, of long imprisonment, of misery, of ruin, of disgrace, but
the room. His eye fell on a large, purple satin coverlet heavily
lighting a cigarette.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Baron Arnheim.
of a hideous stone image almost identical with that which Legrasse had
history, he was haunted by a feeling of loss. So much had been
pianists—two at a time, sometimes, Harry tells me. I don’t know what it
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.  [_Goes towards door_.]
In spite of what I hear of her, I must see her at once. Let her be sent
drawing-room_, _biting her lip_.]
ertainly made three of Lady Canterville's French
bedside and began to dress for dinner.
and walked ahead to show the right one. Courage and confidence were
the ten-acre pasture across Chapman's Brook; his rattling wain wearing
dream of a strange, dank Cyclopean city whilst a young sculptor had
from his hand upon the gravel. A furry bee came and buzzed round it for
out, Ammi, it'll do suthin' more ... sucks the life out...."
LADY CHILTERN.  Mabel!
correspondence was not preserved, but his notes formed a thorough and
distant wastes and dark places all over the world until the time when
in the modern sympathy with pain. One should sympathize with the
Besides, Gertrude, public and private life are different things.  They
HÉRODE.  Salomé, Salomé, dansez pour moi.  Je vous supplie de danser pour
pretty, and to some one else, if she is plain.
for I love you.”
[_Exit through window_, _L._]
meat was of course useless, and Nahum was at his wit's end. No rural
He has no conception of what to do, and his folly is to feign folly.
pour cela.
worthy man.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  What do you want him to be then, dear?
was Dorian himself. But who had done it? He seemed to recognize his own
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Why do you ask me such a question?
"BLOOD HAS BEEN SPILLED ON THAT SPOT"
wretched. Of course, you would have treated her kindly. One can always
ALGERNON.
from that disused well, or the grey dust that no wind seems ever to
mouth was as a pomegranate.  But the sympathy of the artistic temperament
I never change, except in my affections.
I have the gravest doubts upon the subject. But I intend to crush them.
que c’est un crime contre un Dieu inconnu.
head, dragon body, scaly wings, and hieroglyphed pedestal, was
one must be admitted till the police or medical examiner came. He was
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes.  Her coming here is monstrous, unbearable.  I know
children ran away.
higher and higher the brave Norwegian drove his vessel head on against
frenziedly back from his morning trip to Ten-Acre Meadow with the cows.
his window at night. He seemed to regard the circumstance as one of
ALGERNON.
ALGERNON.
you to lure me back that I might serve as a blind to whatever relations
about the lanes on her pony, accompanied by the young Duke of Cheshire,
and a feeling of vague disquiet. Nahum himself gave the most definite
They are in the music-room.  Corots seem to go with music, don’t they?
reach. The jug had evidently been once filled with water, as it was
PARKER.  Mrs.
known!
treatises, and such fairly modern authorities as Blair, von Marten,
with him if it became necessary to quarrel, to part if parting was
was unconscious of it all; the silent spirit that dwelt in dim
“Pyrotechnic, Pyrotechnic, you mean,” said a Bengal Light; “I know it is
don’t set us a good example, what on earth is the use of them? They
ve four and a half!  There
t each other’s bonnets, Lord Goring.
seem to me to be as exquisite as the coming of spring, and quite as
actress! How different an actress is! Harry! why didn’t you tell me
Through all the years Wilbur had treated his half-deformed albino
the plank on his shoulder, and the big basket in his hand.
SALOMÉ.  Tout ce que je vous demanderai, fût-ce la moitié de votre
dressed himself, and went up to the barn.
TIGELLIN.  A quel sujet, Seigneur?
women grow old nowadays through the faithfulness of their admirers than
tell him to remain. As the door was closing behind him, he called him
[_Enter_ LADY WINDERMERE _R._  _She goes over to_ MRS. ERLYNNE _with the
dinner. I will take your place.”
shield him from those sins that seemed to be already stirring in spirit
in hand required an infinity of research and experiment. Further
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thanks!  Good evening, Lady Chiltern!  Good-night, Lord
they were shaken; the long _clarin_ of the Mexicans, into which the
Then the moon rose like a wonderful silver shield; and the stars began to
good temper, much liked by every one who knew her, and of those ample
in their churchgoing or their attendance at the various social events
“I suppose they are reserving me for some grand occasion,” said the
les rois de la terre ont peur.  Cela au moins on le voit.  Pour une fois
butler and ask.  [_Touches the bell_.]
“Not as long as you love him, I suppose,” was the sullen answer.
babbler on the couch, he took the keys from their nail beside the door
vanity by saying so, but I assure you it is true. Crime belongs
a week afterward, when Old Whateley drove his sleigh through the snow
strange visitations. My uncle, it seems, had quickly instituted a
little child,' and Christ also saw that the soul of each one should be _a
and laid on it a large cross made of white and pink almond-blossoms. As
L.C._]
that he lived alone in
goodness’ sake don’t play that ghastly tune, Algy. How idiotic you are!
evidently been dead for more than a week.
Sinon il mourra mangé des vers.  Le prophète l’a prédit.  Eh bien!
may have got into, I will never reproach him with it after we are
ithout wealth
keep off--nothing was ever still in the night--the walls and windows
to me. Harry, to whom I talked about it, laughed at me. But I did not
[_Salomé danse la danse des sept voiles_.]
“I do, Lord Henry,” murmured Mr. Erskine, with a smile.
doing what I am going to do—what you force me to do—it is not of your
Ah! A life crowded with incident, I see; though perhaps somewhat too
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  At one time.
eful thing, and who in some critical
indiscreet?
I hear in much modern Art the cry of Marsyas.  It is bitter in
imaginative. He indeed went so far as to hint of the faint beating of
riband and star of the Garter_.  _A fine Whig type_.  _Rather like a
Harry, if I hadn’t—I should have missed the greatest romance of my
forgets.  That is the wonderful thing about it, but I am afraid you don’t
The sky was pure opal now, and the roofs of the houses glistened like
glens, and brooded obscenely on the mountain tops. Of this he had
back, my letter has put me in their power—Arthur would not take me back!
and Shakespeare himself. Yes, Basil could have saved him. But it was
Lane, Manservant
n
s blanches.  Ils ressembleront à des
such love as Michelangelo had known, and Montaigne, and Winckelmann,
shrubbery was now bending. This, indeed, proved to be true; and the
were incapable of anything of the kind. Know you? I wonder do I know
time to certain heathen gods. It had for some time been noticed that
ambassadeurs.  Il a dit des choses très blessantes.  Mais César le
needles as ruthless and as anciently known as the cryptic rites and
cerely say, 'What a beginning, what a
MABEL CHILTERN.  Are the others very bad?
the globule in the meteor that the geologist's hammer had shattered,
in their churchgoing or their attendance at the various social events
credit on the institution.
In the spring after Wilbur's birth Lavinia resumed her customary
with their green-toned golds and their marvellously plumaged birds.
mistake nowadays.  It makes one so liable to be misunderstood.  As
years. Lady Dumbleton is an instance in point. To my own knowledge she
7
sometimes with only one or two, and sometimes with only a lone chimney
toward Arkham by the north road. Ammi was worse than his fellows,
a morbid fancy.
suppose.  How I detest that woman!  [_Reads it_.]  ‘I trust you.  I want
LADY WINDERMERE.  Windermere and I married for love.
by the weight of the huge breastplate and steel casque, and had fallen
MR. MONTFORD                _Mr. Harry Stanford_.
withdrawn.  I will arrange for a question to be put to me on the subject.
on the drama that it would be imp
not merely of his own affection, but of the affection of many others
time two policemen had arrived; and Dr. Morgan, meeting them in the
GWENDOLEN.
birthday, as he often remembered afterwards.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  But how?
straightened himself up, and walked over to the fire-place, and stood
something dark in the corner, and upon seeing it more clearly he
Henry, laughing.
think, Harry, that there are only two eras of any importance in the
fair-haired, rather good-looking young man, who had qualified himself
there has ever been in political life?
“Yes, that is his name. I didn’t intend to tell it to you.”
rambles in the hills, bearing in her misproportioned arms the swarthy
[Meditatively.] I cannot at the present moment recall what the
viewless force and indescribable stench swept down from the hill to
found his uncle sitting in a rough
This bud of love by summer’s ripening breath
remote peak must have been a spectacle of infinite grotesqueness
n't keerful ... jest a colour ... her
erred to me by revolting malice,
perfect and complete: too complete, it may be, for like many or all of
ambition, if you take him from the splendour of a great political career,
d’argent, certainement.  Elle est charmante, n’est-ce pas?  Qu’est-ce que
that the body was there, and he hurried to the door and put his hand
hasn’t been opened for nearly five years—not since his lordship died.”
Except Margaret.  She’s grown quite pretty.
had a corruption of its own, worse than the corruption of death
go this record of mine--this test of my own sanity, wherein is pieced
their sapling and run off with the democrat-wagon.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Sadly_.]  One’s past is what one is.  It is the only
see that.”
The _Emma_, he says, was delayed and thrown widely south of her
suffering as a mystery.  It is really a revelation.  One discerns things
had put a stop to whatever monstrous menace had begun its siege of
s malign pursuit,
[Bowing.] A classical allusion merely, drawn from the Pagan authors. I
gave orders I was not at home to any one.  Even my father had a
and a lead-pencil out of his pocket.
[LADY PLYMDALE _glares with indignation at_ MR. DUMBY.  LORD AUGUSTUS
it had in other years, and he felt that age was beginning to tell on
seized and steadied him. All he could do was moan half-inaudibly:
and put the key in his pocket. He felt safe now. No one would ever look
[Illustration: ... and in the fearsome instant of deeper darkness, the
trivial things that we try to develop when things of high import make
one survivor in a half-delirious condition and one man who had
what use is love at all?  All sins, except a sin against itself, Love
manner as he bent over his hostess’s hand was as easy and graceful as
different matter, and really not under his control. It was his solemn
better.  But no man should have a secret from his own wife.  She
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Yes.  I missed it when I got back to Claridge’s, and I
LORD WINDERMERE.
as they ought not to do at night.
his cigarette-case.
“Certainly not,” answered the Linnet, “that is the beginning.”
answered sadly. “And I dare say it is
joy having its bitterness and the memories of pleasure their pain.
everything in the world that a man can want.
It was Rodriguez the Portuguese who climbed up the foot of the monolith
but a few dried pears or some hard nuts.  In the winter, also, he was
e: The Remarkable Rocket]
but when I did so seemed only to be confronted by a greater and more
like to be permitted to put to you.
ESS OF BERWICK.  Sweet girl!  So devoted to sunsets!  Shows such
meant for publication. When it appears in volume form I hope you will
drawn by white, gilt-reined steeds? He longed to see the curious
a great architect went mad, and poor Wilcox raved with fever in that
aîné, le premier mari de la reine Hérodias, a été enfermé là-dedans
frenziedly over endless vistas of green-crusted rock to the boat,
twins, having brought their pea-shooters with them, at once discharged
a certain Venetian a
the truth of what they saw. All around the dwindling brown lump near
Heaven—[Jack puts out his hand to take a sandwich. Algernon at once
MABEL CHILTERN.  It is very good for you to be in the way, and to know
!” exclaimed Lord
However, I am quite ready to enter your name, should your answers be
was built in measureless eons behind history by the vast, loathsome
hideous _Necronomicon_ of the mad Arab Alhazred in Olaus Wormius' Latin
He could not but wonder at his gleaning of the same impression from
actual relations with Sibyl Vane?”
undeniable significance to the various turns of events so carefully
light, like a glutted swarm of corpse-fed fireflies dancing hellish
canvas sack lay where it had evidently been thrown. Near the central
good deal to be said for his view. For the canons of good society are,
In the summer of 1927 Wilbur repaired two sheds in the farmyard and
wounded, broken, and great heart of the world.  When people are able to
world’s history.
“Certainly.”
Bring me that cigarette case Mr. Worthing left in the smoking-room the
a-headin' fer the haouse. Then she up an' spoke suddent of a fearful
Lord Henry walked across the room, and sitting down by Dorian Gray,
Seigneur.
dislikes, and indeed almost fears at evening when unseen whippoorwills
most sensible conclusions. So, after thoroughly studying the manuscript
[_Enter_ PARKER _C._]
most unpleasant mineral waters, merely to get Berwick out of town.
ancient trees they had to scramble as if up a ladder, put these
subtle change in the tilt of the branches. But Nahum was alive, after
CECILY.
at harvest celebrations, christenings, confirmations, on days of
going for a walk with me? That will be nice! I was afraid you were
LORD GORING.  Yes; much better than when I saw it last.
[_Enter_ MABEL CHILTERN _and_ LORD CAVERSHAM.]
the true reason why he had wished to hide the picture away.
person. Sit down.”
to which such things were put, there was something that quickened his
Don’t go away from me. I couldn’t bear it. Oh! don’t go away from me.
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_Rising_.]  And how well it becomes us, Olivia!
CECILY.
pleasure.
JACK.
I am so glad.
HOPPER.  Yes!
wonder, for what thoughts must arise upon hearing, after a knowledge
opened the door and went out on the landing. The house was absolutely
that one wishes they would keep their distance, but there is no road by
they was a kind o' mushy saound, like a elephant puffin' an' treadin',
have dreadful tempers.  Do you know, I think I’ll dance with you first,
thought he had seen it for an instant that very morning against the
present.
week of pointless and irrelevant accounts of thoroughly usual visions.
used.  But I admit I have something to tell you that may distress you,
sound of his own footsteps.
The christenings, sir! Is not that somewhat premature?
views about them, but they are not one’s concern. Besides,
announced its own purchase.
remove.
GWENDOLEN.
there were any men, and who came to the young world out of the sky.
seem almost a duty, and Johansen shows ingenuous wonder at the charge
ALGERNON.
that you will have only one child now to look after, and believe me
ad been his greatest playmate.
lantern and pail for water, and had never come back. He'd been going
through keyholes.  One always hears such wonderful things through them.
you because you loved him so much. Don’t look so sad. I am as happy
escaped even the cutting bureau which had at the time of its issuance
CECIL GRAHAM.  Thanks.  [_Goes to table with_ LORD DARLINGTON.]  Mrs.
will recognize how impossible it would be for me to allow them to remain
Professor Webb had been engaged, forty-eight years before, in a tour
the people could stand it no more.
pearls and studded with sapphires.
toujours?
No married man is ever attractive except to his wife.
like, it being answerable from the hill and not from the air.
I am glad to think I can never possibly repay.  It is embalmed and kept
LORD WINDERMERE.  I am not one of them.
began to be bad. Then Nahum had the cows driven to the uplands, after
few. But these were not the Great Old Ones. No man had ever seen the
some winter sea. From him, at any rate, he was safe. Why, the man did
cial property, and that if any one of
CECIL GRAHAM.  Oh! gossip is charming!  History is merely gossip.  But
little street there is a poor house.  One of the windows is open, and
because I have no tears, and pray with me for my soul, because I have no
Spring Glen, would bring a touch of ineffable fetor to the heavy night
I now felt gnawing at my vitals that dark terror which will never leave
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord!  They are extremely fortunate in that respect.
to_ CECIL GRAHAM.]
But, my dear child, do you mean to say you could not love me if I had
UN JUIF.  En effet, Seigneur, il serait mieux de nous le livrer.
to see it was to die. But it made men dream, and so they knew enough to
ridiculous estimate of themselves and t
[Reproachfully.] Mamma!
and coat off and throwing them on the bag that he had placed in the
LADY WINDERMERE.  Arthur, would you mind seeing if Mrs. Erlynne’s
_recombining_ in its hateful original form, whilst its distance widened
expression in her face_.]  Out of the house?
and monotonous chores through the aimless days. There was something of
most of that day in looking over his wardrobe, ultimately deciding in
had gone in to lunch. He gave one of the footmen his hat and stick and
Yes, it will be exactly three months on Thursday.
music is a great difficulty. You see, if one plays good music, people
contemptible action of my life was to allow myself to appeal to society
has the supreme vice of shallowness, and fails to realise what it has
before.
with gratification. The more he knew, the more he desired to know. He
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Rising_.]  But you have not seen my Corots yet.
Accordingly he attacked the manuscript with the preliminary assumption
and impressiveness, but no observer was in a mood for esthetic
Economy! Horrid Geography! Horrid, horrid German!
is a second Panama, and with not a quarter of the chance of success that
back to him, and he grew cold with passion. The dead man was still
Even the common uneducated audience of the pit and gallery lost their
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; but nothing ever came of
What on earth do you mean?
the most dreadful scrapes. That, my dear Algy, is the whole truth pure
children say to them. The old-fashioned respect for the young is fast
blowing about in the chill wind that came down the chimney. Presently
him he admitted that Nahum had feared something down there--so much so
LADY BRACKNELL.
railway station might serve to conceal a social indiscretion—has
fault. That book you sent me so fascinated me that I forgot how the
you mean to say you don’t like what I did of you? Where is it? Why have
added another sentence or two.
seemed laden with spices.
you, and . . . to ask you to do something for me.
half-comatose state; but he was conscious enough to warn her off with
de mes paons.  Ils vous suivront partout, et au milieu d’eux vous serez
JACK.
an' come up here ter see what yew thought best ter dew. Not but what I
anxiously watches_ MRS. ERLYNNE _as the scene progresses_.]
“I can’t tell you, Harry,” he answered sadly. “And I dare say it is
elder mystery.
He glanced about as if in search of something. “What are you looking
and see him.  He was living then in Park Lane, in the house Lord Woolcomb
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
contrast to her own sickly and pink-eyed albinism, and was heard to
Arthur do with me what he pleases.  I can’t wait here.  It has been
Almost at the same time the mortality among the livestock commenced.
ancient woodwork. God! how old the house was! Most of it built before
CECILY.
they make badness of such extraordinary importance.  It is absurd to
unreal and selfish love would yield to some higher influence, would be
the night.
DUMBY.  Awful manners young Hopper has!
to-morrow night she will be Juliet.”
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Ce n’est pas de César que le prophète a parlé,
and nothing could exceed his disappointment. He had absolutely nothing
molded in his sleep the form of the dreaded Cthulhu. March 23rd the
Three men were swept up by the flabby claws before anybody turned. God
g away at once, so that only
while the intermittent light of a spectral half-moon played wanly on
By the way, have you tried her with money?
was a nocturnal suicide in London, where a lone sleeper had leaped
“I should think it was, Harry.
everything. These common rough people, with their coarse faces and
particular locality in which the hand-bag was found, a cloak-room at a
ne who
and watch the priest, in his stiff flowered dalmatic, slowly and with
We are clowns whose hearts are broken.
his wife, and there to place a clammy hand on Mrs. Otis's forehead,
little annoyed to find that his present had not been accepted. "I have
picturesque, but only succeeded in being untidy. Her name was Victoria,
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Arthur cannot bring Mabel the love that she
would make him smile.
telling the city people at Arkham who laughed at everything. Thad was
easily planned than performed; since no sign of the party could be
alive ... suckin' the life out of
she saw some one inside, and thinking it was her mother's maid, who
done.  “It is curious,” he remarked, “but I feel quite warm now, although
men, a sense of doom and
Suez Canal shares—a letter written three days before the Government
become stout and tedious, and when I meet them, they go in at once for
their faces toward the road, Ammi had looked back an instant at the
“‘A great loss to me at any rate,’ answered the Miller; ‘why, I had as
by Clodion, and beside it lay a copy of Les Cent Nouvelles, bound for
there is one art left to us that is not imitative! Don’t stop. I want
one minute to make your peace—no more. I go on board to-night for
for silicon. It had acted quite unbelievably in that well-ordered
down.
is objectless on earth, that it predominates in the period of our
had always lived.  So pale was she that as she drove through the streets
subsidence into lethargy. His temperature, oddly enough, was not
LADY WINDERMERE.  How horrible!  I understand now what Lord Darlington
that had vanished, and in another second they had vanished too.
Robert Chiltern a certain thing.  If he won’t pay me my price, he will
_Then suddenly stops_, _and bows rather distantly_.]  I think Mrs.
voir.
from the moon back again to the pit, all livened by a cachinnating
the ripped earth and charred grass near the archaic well-sweep in his
nswered the old gentleman with a courteous
ime for positive action had come, and spoke
discovered.
many others besides him, seemed never to leave him. Even those who had
you seem to want to throw it away. It is silly of you, for there is
and an enormous diamond blazed in the centre of a soiled shirt. ‘Have a
so hideous a chain. I think that the professor, too, intended to keep
I say it’s perfectly heartless your eating muffins at all, under the
Charming. It was pretty of her. You must do me a drawing of Sibyl,
me. I turned half-way round and saw Dorian Gray for the first time.
happened many years ago.  It is best forgotten!  Mrs. Cheveley may have
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_With a flash of amusement in her eyes_.]  Between your
put suddenly in order, clapboarded, and fitted with a stout fresh lock.
which he was offered in exchange for an admission of membership in
down from very old times. Dunwich is indeed ridiculously old--older by
my business took me through and past it. There was no vegetation of
the road flamed like throbbing rings of fire. A white dust—tremulous
. “Where shall we put it, sir?”
and he collapsed completely before he could say more. Fred Farr and
marketplace.  It may not be purchased of the merchants, nor can it be
returned.  You spoke to me last night of her as of a woman pure and
[Somewhat indignantly.] She is the most cultivated of ladies, and the
prophecy.  For every expectation that he fulfilled there was another that
cognizant of the old data which my uncle had possessed, had been
are horrors in store for that little white body of hers!”
“Why are you weeping then?” asked the Swallow; “you have quite drenched
Well, you have been eating them all the time.
flopped down the slimy stones and hesitated floundering at the edge of
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Certainly, and you well deserve it too.  You have got
little, and he does not even recall when William Briden, his
would have died rather than have crossed your life or his—oh!
savoir.  Le nécessaire c’est de se soumettre à tout.  Dieu est très fort.
follow. Why should I not love her? Harry, I do love her. She is
than I had been led to think, and before I knew it had grasped quite
creeping about the ridgepoles of the house, barn and sheds. It was a
door, love flies in through the window. Our proverbs want rewriting.
labor; and though he still babbled dementedly at times, his carpentry
which I should mention was called the Blue Bed Chamber, on account of
tawny aromatic brooms of the common furze; and I know that for me, to
“What a fuss people make about fidelity!” exclaimed Lord Henry. “Why,
ancient road line, but encroached a little on the other side. I felt
and watch you.
responsible for what he or she does at an English country house.
MISS PRISM.
nothing.
makes himself the spy of his proper actions, and listening to his own
added another sentence or two.
and bedded itself in the ground beside the well at the Nahum Gardner
we might leave the two brothers together.
You are really an admirable tonic, much better than what Sir Andrew
and something terrible--though I know not in what proportion--still
off their feet. Dogs howled from the distance, green grass and foliage
His mother was waiting for him below. She grumbled at his
voice. “Eighteen years!
“Oh, I am tired of sitting, and I don’t want a life-sized portrait of
“No trouble, sir. At what time shall I be back?”
The rustics say the blight creeps an inch a year, so perhaps there is
fainted, and two were shaken into a frantic cry which the mad cacophony
write. The others write the poetry that they dare not realize.”
told that there is hardly a husband in London who does not waste his life
a sound that the chronicler would not put on paper. For an instant
noisome up there, and no sound could be heard from any direction.
regarded sin and suffering as being in themselves beautiful holy things
into delirium!
capable of motion there would have been a deed so monstrous as to damn
[Replaces box.] The three you wrote me after I had broken off the
it cometh and whither it goeth.'  That is why he is so fascinating to
What should he do if Basil Hallward came and asked to look at his own
it was a rough parallel in all essential features of the bestial thing
word _doctrinaire_—word full of terror to the British mind—reappeared
apart.
On reaching his room he entirely broke down, and became a prey to the
MABEL CHILTERN.  I don’t want you to have any.  They would not be good
CHASUBLE.
that only generous clothing could ever have enabled it to walk on earth
[LADY WINDERMERE _throws off her cloak and flings it on the sofa_.]
PREMIER SOLDAT.  C’est notre capitaine, Seigneur.  C’est le jeune Syrien
What I want you to do is merely what you have often done before.
were moments, later on, when it had the wild passion of violins. You
the fire was still burning, and some plates were lying on the grass.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Sitting down_.]  Glad to hear it.  Can’t stand
“Now I am going off!” he cried, and he made himself very stiff and
to see something not quite right about their nature and arrangement.
bitter cold wind swept round them, and she felt something pulling at her
Egeria and her pupil any longer.
armchair_.  SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _is standing in front of the fireplace_.
appreciate me. Is that very vain of
going to give you my wheelbarrow, it is rather unfriendly of you to
Indeed, my ruin came not from too great individualism of life, but from
The average of their intelligence is wofully low, whilst their annals
pas?
[_Enter_ MASON.]
awed by the cosmic majesty of this dripping Babylon of elder demons,
museums, or on the road as a show."
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  You prefer to be natural?
that my uncle's death was far from natural. He fell on a narrow hill
that sort of thing going on nowadays.
whole attitude was one of extreme depression.
to loose them on the world whenever another earthquake shall heave
crowded out all other images at the time. It would be trite and not
arriver un malheur.  N’en parlons pas . . . Noble Hérodias, nous oublions
an honour!” cried all the courtiers.
read all that the wise men have written, and all the secrets of
LORD GORING.  My dear father!  At this hour?
important nowadays.  He’s such a brilliant talker, too.  But we all know
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_Puffing a cigar_.]  Mrs. Erlynne has a future before
you.  There is property at stake.  It is not a matter for affection.
conservatism, had found him quite hopeless.
deliberate bloodthirstiness and repulsiveness. It was a faith of which
That lady is Miss Cecily Cardew, my ward.
enough for any one, I should think.
proposal in my diary.
accepting the standard of one’s age.
watched him. Words dropped mechanically from her lips. A tattered lace
to-day. I am awfully obliged to you.”
what, in God's name, can we do?_"
Augustus—you know my disreputable brother—such a trial to us all—well,
who listened to him as he sat at meat the coarse food seemed delicate,
cold waste hath known Them, and what man knows Kadath? The ice
and _fleurs-de-lis_; altar frontals of crimson velvet and blue linen;
CECILY.
in at the opera. It is a Patti night, and
as there used to be.  So pleased to find that nothing has altered!
pounds is a very large sum. Mr. Isaacs has been most considerate.”
So the Hail came.  Every day for three hours he rattled on the roof of
It is said that passion makes one think in a circle. Certainly with
When the Duke de Valentinois, son of Alexander VI., visited Louis XII.
said, "an' naowadays they's more nor what I know myself. I vaow afur
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Stop!  You want me to withdraw the report and to
CECILY.
He passed out as his servant entered.
MR. MONTFORD
the Romeo was hideous, and old, and painted, that the moonlight in the
I should make a secret of it to you. Our little county newspaper is
Yes, of course. [Nervously.]
Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders. “My dear fellow, mediæval art is
when acting was really understood. As for Sibyl, I do not know at
Well, that is exactly what dentists always do. Now, go on!
IOKANAAN.  Qui est cette femme qui me regarde?  Je ne veux pas qu’elle me
“Women are not always allowed a choice,” he answered, but hardly had he
BASILDON, MRS. MARCHMONT, VICOMTE DE NANJAC, MR. MONTFORD.]
MABEL CHILTERN.  How sweet of you to say that, Lord Caversham!  Do come
from the window. He thought of the wild tales he had heard, and
the leaded panes seemed to him like his own wasted resolutions and wild
severe chill.
“What of art?” she asked.
This was no breath from the skies whose motions and dimensions our
madly down the long avenue. His head was leaning on his hand, and his
credible Witnesses now living. I myself did not more than a
“In the Parthian manner?”
friendship, was quite free from selfishness of any kind.’
friend.  When one comes in contact with the soul it makes one simple as a
of that old-time raiding-party, saw the frightful image, and even
astronomers measure or deem too vast to measure. It was just a colour
[_Glances instinctively at_ LORD WINDERMERE _while he speaks_.]
latterly I am inclined to wonder--and more than wonder.
_Fifth F’cap. 8vo. Edition_
Woods," he met with a severe fall, through treading on a butter-slide,
the scene of unholy
had set out in the late afternoon with the shivering squatter as a
little changed already.”
redder than the great fans of coral that wave and wave in the
three tiny figures, apparently running toward the summit as fast as the
his cell, but also the painter to whom the world is a pageant and the
scandal.  He shall have the worst scandal there has been in London for
one can endure—they come from outside, they are accidents.  But to suffer
I’ll be back in no time.
country gossip was disputable no longer, and it is because of the
“I am afraid you don’t quite see the moral of the story,” remarked the
LORD CAVERSHAM.  I suppose you have read _The Times_ this morning?
a stifled groan, followed by the dull sound of a heavy fall. Everybody
ng in their
Ammi would never go near the place again. It is forty-four years now
in the spring, and that wild things leave queer prints in the light
ALGERNON.
screamed at each other from behind their locked doors was very
her charity appeals. I am sick of them. Why, the good woman thinks that
"It is no reason at all for existing, and you know you have been very
“I will try and do something, Dorian, if it would please you. But you
LORD GORING.  Handsome woman, Mrs. Cheveley!
huge, formless white polypous thing with luminous eyes; and squatters
from the tea-table with an amused smile.
up his mind. She had never insulted him in any way, and was pretty and
medical experts to investigate; conducting a survey which New England
greatly above normal; but the whole condition was otherwise such as to
chime, but Dorian Gray did not stir. He was trying to gather up the
CHASUBLE.
With his subtle smile, Lord Henry watched him. He knew the precise
CECILY.
sought to symbolize. He loved to kneel down on the cold marble pavement
life, she marred it, and it marred her, and so she passed away. Mourn
who is in very great trouble.
caows, frighted ez he was; an' faound 'em in the upper pasture nigh the
moving thing was left in that attic room, and that to leave anything
HÉRODE.  Vous entendez ce que dit votre fille.  Elle va danser pour moi.
LORD GORING.  [_After some hesitation_.]  Yes, father, if I listen
in your terms.
The admiralty will institute an inquiry on the whole matter
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.  Qui est celui qui vient d’Edom, qui vient de Bosra
shaking each of his friends by the hand in turn. “I have never been so
Renan in his _Vie de Jesus_--that gracious fifth gospel, the gospel
The moment you consent to my marriage with Gwendolen, I will most
and deceitful.
k about the queer earth noises reached clear to Arkham--what walked
of luminous amorphousness, that alien and undimensioned rainbow of
his garden that it seemed to him to be the most beautiful music in the
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  And what answer did you give him, dear child?
swayed without wind. It was really lucky for Ammi that he was not more
who is mine. What is marriage? An irrevocable vow. You mock at it for
terrible than that fancied degradation from which, in their ignorance,
me a compliment, Windermere.  But you are not very clever at paying
"HE MET WITH A SEVERE FALL"
quite delightful and dreadfully demoralizing. I am sure I don’t know
Well, if you want to know, Cecily happens to be my aunt.
That July and August were hot; and Nahum worked hard at his haying in
absorbed in expression and cannot be separated from it, is a complex
To this day it sprawls open to the sky like a great spot eaten by acid
Not at all. The sprinkling, and, indeed, the immersion of adults is a
“Yes, that is his name.
What was that loathsome red dew that gleamed, wet and glistening, on
except sentimentalists. And you are awfully unjust, Basil. You come
professor stated, a very crude bas-relief of stone, comprising a
driven considerably south of her course by exceptionally heavy
such dowered with outside properties and obedient to outside laws.
[Lane presents several letters on a salver to Algernon. It is to be
doors of the house of mourning against me, I would come back again and
Never speak disrespectfully of Society, Algernon. Only people who can’t
It may have been only imagination and it may have been only echoes
I don’t think it can be right for you to talk to me like that. Miss
And often, I’ve been told, not even to her.
crude wooden bridges always seem of dubious safety. When the road
The press cuttings, as I have intimated, touched on cases of panic,
[_Shakes hands with_ MABEL CHILTERN, _takes up his hat and stick_, _and
the world had become wonderful to my eyes—too wonderful, perhaps, for
them. The women sidled up and began to chatter. Dorian turned his back
begins writing in diary.]
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Weak?  Oh, I am sick of hearing that phrase.  Sick
understood, and so much in women that their husbands never appreciate in
The fuming censers that the grave boys, in their lace and scarlet,
deal of harm in this world.  Certainly the greatest harm they do is that
“Dear me!” said Lady Agatha, “how you men argue! I am sure I never can
feet high in his apartment. The state bed of Sobieski, King of Poland,
and was a good deal touched at his devotion to Virginia, so leaning down
christened already?
dreams_ upon at least three of the precise words of the formula uttered
be no forgiveness.
Yes, the lad was premature. He was gathering his harvest while it was
shapeless stream of unplaceable colour left the well it seemed to flow
que vous ferez cela pour moi.  Et demain quand je passerai dans ma
younger brother who was very wicked and bad, you of course have formed
his, musical
Yes, if you are not too long. I never saw anybody take so long to
Elle était pleine de vin.  Quelqu’un l’a bu?  Oh! je suis sûr qu’il va
Yes, Mr. Worthing, what have you got to say to me?
of the Court dignitaries!”
whose utter strangeness and air of genuinely abysmal antiquity hinted
was ashamed of him. The Queen used to ask me about the English noble
He felt that the man must be got rid of at once. He must not be allowed
“Now I am going to explode,” he cried.  “I shall set the whole world on
HÉRODIAS.  Ne dansez pas, ma fille.
“My own garden is my own garden,” said the Giant; “any one can understand
her, but I think that a mother who doesn’t part with a daughter every
such a good old man--when the reservoir gang gets to work I must write
o repass that ominous spot, I walked circuitously back to the
sculptor abruptly asked for the benefit of his host's archeological
y a des Juifs de Jérusalem qui se déchirent à cause de leurs ridicules
ALGERNON.
to him at the club, the red candleshades staining to a richer
prophète Élie.  Lui c’est le dernier qui ait vu Dieu.
“and thrown my bonnet right over the mills for your sake. It is most
instantly flutter away chittering in demoniac laughter; but if they
to have died--but poor Lavinia Whateley, the twisted albino, was never
LORD WINDERMERE.  I entreat you.  People may chatter about her, do
The veterinary shivered, and walked to the front door to drop the heavy
“Decay fascinates me more.”
with which Wilbur and Old Whateley always paid their debts has yet been
from their transparency are known in the East as “woven air,” and
n't keerful ... jest a colour ... her
Not knowing just how he could best be launched on his tales, I feigned
LADY BRACKNELL.
ancestor, Sir Simon, a very important service, and I and my family are
arms around him_.]  Robert, love gives one an instinct to things.  I feel
subtle pleasure in the thought that he might really become to the
suddenly in sight of the spectacle itself. Four of them reeled, one
being.
to almost empty benches. The curtain went down on a titter and some
St., New Orleans, La., at 1908 A. A. S. Mtg--Notes on Same, & Prof.
e into them. We
For some reason or other, the house was crowded that night, and the fat
SALOMÉ.  Comme l’air est frais ici!  Enfin, ici on respire!  Là-dedans il
inquest? What did you mean by that? Did Sibyl—? Oh, Harry, I can’t bear
experiences, yet it was not a simple, but rather a very complex
jambs around it, though they could not decide whether it lay flat like
main d’une morte qui cherche à se couvrir avec un linceul.
Whatever was down there in the glen was biding its time, and Armitage
read. The theme is original, and yet fantastic
going to be married again; thought you were tired of that game.
life was chaos, but there was something terribly logical in the
or fast-filling cellar. Weeds and briers reigned, and furtive wild
danger. “You told me a month ago that you would never exhibit it,” he
being immeasurably the stronger during the period of the sculptor's
confirmation of what my uncle had written, excited me afresh; for I
letter that we had been afraid to read, or that we had read too often.
CECIL GRAHAM.  But you never were, Tuppy, and you never will be.  [_Goes
by some hateful current of vapour.
killed my love,” he muttered.
ate and fear the whole Whateley place as violently
twelve or thirteen.
almost loathed. His breath quickened. A mad craving came over him. He
le vent sans doute.  C’est passé.  Mais non, je l’entends encore.  Ne
superstition--_but they were there before_. They are transcripts,
MASON.  Yes, Sir Robert.
teaching them the secret of some new joy. They were better off than he
came to a great oak door, studded with rusty nails. When Virginia
matter that surely an aunt may be allowed to decide for herself. You
was an old one, of gilt Spanish leather, stamped and wrought with a
ck.] Darling!
"Feed it reg'lar, Willy, an' mind the quantity; but dun't let it grow
forgetfulness. In three days he would be free.
CECIL GRAHAM.  We’d treat you with more respect, wouldn’t we, Tuppy?
HÉRODE.  Ce n’est pas de moi qu’il parle.  Il ne dit jamais rien contre
pastured in the lot near the house, but toward the end of May the milk
LORD DARLINGTON.  If I know you at all, I know that you can’t live with a
“I will stay with you one night longer,” said the Swallow, “but I cannot
others maintained it would be of no use. Old Zebulon Whateley, of a
“You were talking about yourself,” replied the Roman Candle.
[_The room is brilliantly lighted and full of guests_.  _At the top of
arm-chair, in the little library of Lord Henry’s house in Mayfair. It
station, Mr. Otis had telegraphed for a waggonette to meet them, and
Mrs. Erlynne.
LADY WINDERMERE.  You think it wrong that you are found out, don’t you?
hope to be able to recreate my creative faculty.
neither society here, nor solitude.  In fact, it is essentially suburban.
but Mr. Otis would not allow him, as he was afraid there might be a
me, if you care to.”
it was a disappointment to her. The vulgar directness of the question
one that Bernal Diaz saw when he went with Cortes into the Mexican
“Then what should we call you, Harry?” she asked.
on tiptoe into the room to see if he was stirring, and had wondered
throbbing with maddened nerves, and he felt wildly excited, but his
“What nonsense!”
have disclosed to him life’s mystery. And, yet, what was there to be
I am not a champion of marriage. The real drawback to marriage is that
such as it is, the basis of my career such as it is, and that I had done
serve at the feast as Ganymede or Hylas; Ezzelin, whose melancholy
must either bruise or bend. They either slay the man, or themselves
You are sure a severe chill isn’t hereditary, or anything of that kind?
existed between him and the picture might cease. It had changed in
Paris in the autumn. I shall probably have to give it another coat of
manned by a queer and evil-looking crew of Kanakas and half-castes.
of the men somehow died ashore, though Johansen is queerly reticent
the mighty city of
HOPPER.  But I should like to dance with Lady Agatha, Duchess.
on the mountains that May Night? What Roodmas horror fastened itself on
during the earlier months certain callers fancied they could discern
Was the soul a shadow seated in the house of sin? Or was the body
pointing with a grimy finger through the steadily lessening rain.
of a man as coming from the hand of God 'weeping and laughing like a
of feelers, a scaly, rubbery-looking body, prodigious claws on hind
possible disappointment, Mr.
Cabinet!
get romantic after a meal, and that bores me dreadfully.  [_Exit_ SIR
*       *       *       *       *
with me are in many respects more fortunate than I am.  The little way in
called Ernest.
The Manor House, Woolton, Hertfordshire.
then told me that luxury was nothing but a background, a painted scene in
one’s youth, if men choose to call it a sin, should wreck a life like
thing.  In the strangely simple economy of the world people only get what
huddled inert on the moonlit ground between the splintered shafts of
que je déteste les Romains!  Ce sont des gens communs, et ils se donnent
buzzing and crawling. Most of the creatures seemed not quite usual in
his room, tripping up in his long winding-sheet as he sped down the
the grass stood beautiful flowers like stars, and there were twelve
him, though I knew him not: night after night have I told
That night there was a thunderstorm, and when the professors went out
the normal adult limit, seemed inclined to wax beyond that figure. In
“You told me you had destroyed it.”
for silicon. It had acted quite unbelievably in that well-ordered
of it.  I see new developments in art and life, each one of which is a
“Oh, something like, ‘Charming boy—poor dear mother and I absolutely
puts forward an idea to a true Englishman—always a rash thing to do—he
strange manners of poisoning—poisoning by a helmet and a lighted torch,
“Royalties may not abdicate,” fell as a warning from pretty lips.
occurred before the eyes of Dr. Armitage and Professor Rice; but it is
wrong for a wife to remain with a man who so dishonours her.  You said
[Very irritably.] How extremely kind of you, Lady Bracknell! I have
of the season.  You don’t call that leading an idle life, do you?
is.  I don’t think they can be quite improving reading for any one.
everything that we did not like.  However, they did not seem to have much
when we were there.
and some of them will doubtless linger even when half the hollows are
“Because, without intending it, I have put into it some expression of
it cometh and whither it goeth.'  That is why he is so fascinating to
laboratory; doing nothing at all and showing no occluded gases when
JACK.
difference between them.
subscribed, no one seems to know what has become of it.  The whole thing
do now is to fight the thing out.
began to mumble without turning or raising its head. Dr.
“Why not, Mother? I mean it.”
what the gods give they quickly take away. You have only a few years in
myself.”
the bondage of strange fever? What of all this--and of those hints of
here ... one o' them professors said so...."
ship of Odysseus. Then, bolder than the storied Cyclops, great Cthulhu
and at once conceded from the specimens scattered about that his genius
the study. I did not enlarge his knowledge in this regard, but sought
o the attic. It was very close and
spread. Is it fastened to the roots of those trees that claw the air?
and fore feet, and long, narrow wings behind.
Yes.
people hearing what one says. That is a great advantage, don’t you
LORD GORING.  But tell me, Robert, did you never suffer any regret for
have drunk deeply of everything. You have crushed the grapes against
everything that had ever been living had gone. Five eldritch acres of
not allow yourself to become sunburnt. It would be unbecoming.”
But the children said that they did not know where he lived, and had
considered excessively vulgar and middle-class.  Nowadays, with our
hommes.
Yet all this was only the prologue of the actual Dunwich horror.
poetic cast which must have typified his whole conversation, and which
book closely sealed, went this afternoon to the house of one of the most
his courtship, and it lasted all through the summer.
in better form for painting than I am to-day. This is going to be my
help to you. She doesn’t understand how to look after you. I wish now
becoming self-conscious. It was delightful to watch him. With his
interest me. There is hardly a single person in the House of Commons
than an hour, when the final throaty rattle came. Dr. Houghton drew
club. We are rather late, as it is.”
ALGERNON.
LORD AUGUSTUS.  If you really desire it, Mrs. Erlynne.
and the real meaning of that—fatal fan of mine.  Oh, if he knows—how can
shook in her blood and shadowed her cheeks. Quick breath parted the
LORD GORING.  Because you have brought a real tragedy into her life, I
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.
could not be believed by those who had not seen a sample, as indeed was
“There is no good talking to him,” said a Dragon-fly, who was sitting on
sculptor abruptly asked for the benefit of his host's archeological
There was a silence. The evening darkened in the room. Noiselessly, and
ROSALIE (_Maid_)            _Miss Winifred Dolan_.
LORD GORING.  [_With deep feeling in his voice_.]  I am very sorry for
LADY WINDERMERE.  You will never speak against Mrs. Erlynne again,
As soon as the man entered, Dorian pulled his chequebook out of a
nearly said yes.  It would have been an excellent lesson both for him and
"Papa," said Virginia, quietly, "I have been with the Ghost. He is dead,
apparently very ancient stone statuette whose origin he was at a loss
the Student’s window.
through life with you and finding it charming.
[Retreating to back of sofa.] But why does she call herself little
[Slowly and seriously.] You will call me sister, will you not? [They
holding in what seems to me a peculiarly unnecessary manner?
by acid in the woods and fields? It lay largely to the north of the
fact, that only the ingrained skepticism then forming my philosophy
could only lie awake in the dark and think whilst uncounted millions
the roof of my barn.
in every line of the mate's frightened description.
stated that Merwin and Zenas had disappeared. There was considerable
LADY MARKBY.  Well, I hope he is not as devoted to Blue Books as Sir John
t?
and clutched the paper containing the alternative ones he had not
and was developing a highly singular quality of brittleness. Ammi
extravagance of the whole subject led me to adopt what I thought the
blood-stain could be seen.
horses had become utterly frightful, but not a soul of that group in
He has been dead ten hours now. Don’t stir, and don’t look at me like
et que les rois leur prennent.  Elle est comme l’arc du roi des Perses
what one wears oneself.  What is unfashionable is what other people wear.
leaving the house and had wormed out of them what they had been doing.
way back from Clark's Corners.
the leper or the feet of God.
Whateley's boarded-up farmhouse. Earl Sawyer, who tended the horse and
carriage along with little Virginia. Then came the United States
been sordid and ugly, if she can strip them of their selfishness and
prevented me.  No one but you, you know it.  And now what is there before
look. The mere fact of having published a book of second-rate sonnets
"Of such great powers or beings there may be conceivably a
It was a large lovely garden, with soft green grass.  Here and there over
train on Monday morning. I have a business appointment that I am
every one told him he was doing a very foolish thing, as there was no
LORD GORING.  To love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance,
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Qui regarde-t-il?
features into an eternal grin. From the eyes streamed rays of scarlet
This was Italian work of the fifteenth century. Another cope was of
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  And you would be happy living somewhere alone with
pulling out the lights_.  SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _looks up_.]
peuple prenne des pierres et la lapide . . .
and transient indeed. There had been eons when other Things ruled on
LADY WINDERMERE.  Why should _you_ be different from other men?  I am
It was Rodriguez the Portuguese who climbed up the foot of the monolith
material which I had noted in Legrasse's smaller specimen. Geologists,
“I adore simple pleasures,” said Lord Henry. “They are the last refuge
it appeared again. The third morning also it was there, though the
was blowing and roaring round the house so terribly that at first he
CECILY.
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.  Il sera assis sur son trône.  Il sera vêtu de
absurd fellows you are, both of you! I wonder who it was defined man as
looks so fast!  The last two dances you might pass on the terrace with
“‘Little Hans, Doctor.’
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Go!  Go at once.  You have done your worst now.
Yes, that would serve to wrap the dreadful thing in. It had perhaps
people hearing what one says. That is a great advantage, don’t you
a l’air très malade, votre fille.  Jamais je ne l’ai vue si pâle.
ly
“Mr. Dorian Gray does not belong to Blue Books, Uncle George,” said
flagellés de verges.  Dans un coffret de nacre j’ai trois turquoises
compare notes as far as practicable. This, however, they found more
me, I will copy your remarks into my diary. [Goes over to table and
and no one was really unprepared when, at seven months, he began to
upstairs to the locked room, open the door with the key that never left
glad when the new reservoir blots it out.
I have a right to share in sorrow, and he who can look at the loveliness
any solid obstruction.
it was couched in a style clearly showing the mixed occult erudition
imperial value.  It was necessary that we should have control.  This
job as they had feared it would be, since the water was phenomenally
Uncle Jack would be very much annoyed if he knew you were staying on
but when the stars were wrong, They could not live. But although They
with Western civilizations, and loved to touch and try them. He had the
be easy to know, for then mankind would have become as the Great Old
me peculiarly distressing.
windows yielded easily—their bolts were old.
different cast, and resembling Sanskrit more than anything else. The
particular reason for asking you.
[Rather brightly.] There is just one question I would like to be
the love of children and
“I really cannot understand it.”
least, in any true or stable sense. He had taken somewhat after his
even to be left alone again, each one of the cowed squatters refused
mangé des vers.
towards it, dipped in, and closed on something. It was a small Chinese
ree men seemed to rouse the dying thing, it
mind an' then gits ye ... burns ye up ... in the well water ... you
of the results of a mere chance which fixed my eye on a certain stray
MERRIMAN.
shrill and curious in his ears.
nipped my buds, and the storm has broken my branches, and I shall have no
soir.  Ce n’est pas dans vos habitudes.  Mais il est tard.  Rentrons.
and a half as a human being. But the looked-for terror did not appear.
délier de ma parole et ne pas me demander ce que vous m’avez demandé.
anthropoid outline, but with an octopuslike head whose face was a mass
peur de lui, le tétrarque.  Je suis sûre qu’il a peur de lui . . . Est-ce
degradation of the body which I must not try and make into a
arrested. There was no need for words. What had been disputed in
return. They would be happy together. His life with her would be
LORD GORING.  [_With increased emphasis_.]  Good morning, Miss Mabel!
o sleep in? Why, man, there
and rises and goes out_.]
She was sent away for being a thief.  Why do you let her influence you?
jumped violently at the terrific report which seemed to rend the hills;
“They go to America,” murmured Lord Henry.
and farmland to be blotted out, though perhaps there would have been
On March 23rd, the manuscript continued, Wilcox failed to appear; and
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN, _who is standing close to the door_, _she pauses for
for.”
cycle of Greek tragedy to touch it.  The absolute purity of the
married.
UN ESCLAVE.  Quelle réponse dois-je donner au tétrarque de la part de la
extraordinary faculty of becoming absolutely absorbed for the moment in
thing is quite simple.
LORD GORING.  Good morning, Miss Mabel!
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Not everything.  I suppose you are right.  Arthur,
in all conceivable foreign parts; and the picture was a half-tone cut
Greek chorus, lost elsewhere to art, is to be found in the servitor
led. Some of them fascinated me. Others filled me with terror. There
SALOMÉ.  J’attends que mes esclaves m’apportent des parfums et les sept
are some one else's opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a
after I met you, something seemed to throb in my veins. As I lounged in
representing the two or three armigerous families which came from
was he thought only of the blasphemous monstrosity which confronted
“What?”
vieille roche_ that was the envy of all the connoisseurs.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  No; I want Lord Augustus.  I have a special message for
skittish in the silent valley; and hunters cannot depend on their dogs
[Enter Merriman.]
Darkness fell upon a stricken countryside too passive to organize
picture in one of the old papers spread beneath the stones. It was the
mumbled his formless reflections.
Perhaps it was not so reckless, after all. It was simply inevitable. We
and transient indeed. There had been eons when other Things ruled on
y amid the pathless deserts of Arabia, where
about, Mrs. Cheveley!
is all. No; I did it myself. The light was too strong on the portrait.”
Dear Uncle Jack is so very serious! Sometimes he is so serious that I
_the apple-blossom type_.  _She has all the fragrance and freedom of a
search for sensations that would be at once new and delightful, and
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  The affair to which you allude was no more than a
rouge comme le sang.
listlessly.
_The firmly-chiselled mouth and chin contrast strikingly with the
life—to cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes, Arthur, do go, please.
CECIL GRAHAM.  [_Lighting a cigarette_.]  Well, you are a lucky fellow!
particular region. It must, I thought as I viewed it, be the outcome
ALGERNON.
what we want so much in political life nowadays—high character, high
[Pleasantly.] Never. Not even of any kind.
christening. She was an extraordinarily beautiful girl, Margaret
In the elder time chosen men had talked with the entombed Old Ones in
will call your carriage for you.  You have lived so long abroad, Mrs.
importance at all.  You can see to what intensity of individualism I have
watering of flowers is rather Moulton’s duty than yours?
sculpture had animated this terrible object, yet centuries and even
HOPPER.  Capital place, London!  They are not nearly so exclusive in
them. They included not only a repetition of what he had formerly
LADY BRACKNELL.
Association, where, by the way, Robert, your name was received with loud
one of them, as Dorian passed by. The man looked at her in terror and
Thank you. Might I have a buttonhole first? I never have any appetite
an' Sentinel Hill--Luther he had the guts ter step up whar he'd heerd
perfectly frantic with anxiety, begged hard to be allowed to go too,
might not know.
upon it, tells me that it is May. . . .
terrible, especially to little Merwin, who fancied they talked in some
[Enter Miss Prism hurriedly.]
*       *       *       *       *
few expurgations. French songs I cannot possibly allow. People always
Parker says it was not left in any of the rooms.  He has looked in all of
with real affection. There were tears in his eyes as he went
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  It would ruin me.  Arthur, the only thing for me to
I am completely penniless, and absolutely homeless.  Yet there are worse
ALGERNON.
arise not long afterward, but there was absolutely none then. Even
said that on one occasion, when he was brought by a friend into the
wa'n't strong enough to dew that. Everybody was a-listenin', an' ye
who suspected a touch of bizarre familiarity in the monstrous shape and
He had merely shot an arrow into the air. Had it hit the mark? How
life out. He said it must be some'at growed from a round ball like one
who had eaten nothing grown in that soil was another matter. Was it the
LORD GORING.  I’ll wait for a short time, thanks.
husband!
LADY STUTFIELD              _Miss Madge Girdlestone_.
named Hans.”
LORD GORING.  [_Taking his hand away quietly_.]  Yes: except that.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_R.C._]  No, dear Lord Augustus, you can’t explain
both because of his peculiar interest in the Whateley matter, and
with corked eyebrows, a husky tragedy voice, and a figure like a
ALGERNON.
must thank you for sending a card to Mr. Hopper—he’s that rich young
by a little charcoal stove, playing with bone counters and showing
As soon as he had left, he rushed to the screen and drew it back. No;
ere had come to New Orleans police a frantic
round indignantly_.]
the end. At the time I saw no reason to dissent from this dictum, but
citron-green leather, with a design of gilt trellis-work and dotted
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_With a mock curtsey_]  Good evening, Lord Goring!
Bard,’ as he insisted on calling him. He seemed to think it a
Johansen's voyage had begun just as he told it to the vice-admiralty.
you, dear?
the cult in some casual way, and had soon forgotten it amidst the mass
was she like? Whom did she marry? You have known nearly everybody in
There is passion, enmity, worship, love, but no friendship.  I love you—
corner of the churchyard, just under the old yew-tree, and the service
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
conducted herself well.  If years ago—
at first, but seemed cowed and reluctant when near the glen. Someone
palm-leaf fans--twict or three times as big as any they is--hed of ben
would be unable to realise what he had done.  The moment of repentance is
into his hole.
the door.
[_Enter_ MRS. ERLYNNE.]
you loved has even the quiet of a grave to sleep in? Why, man, there
than many other things that might have happened. After a few minutes,
“The button from your foil,” he answered. “You have dropped it.”
May I ask why?
ago. At other times he would call for the dreaded _Necronomicon_ and
writing-table_.]  One night after dinner at Lord Radley’s the Baron began
DUMBY.  Yes; that is what every one calls her.
less value than the possession of a good _chef_.
night?  [_Goes towards her_.]
People point to Reading Gaol and say, 'That is where the artistic life
babies know how to do that, and they are not very clever."
led to luckless Washington's room. For a moment he paused there, the
newly come to the Congregational Church at Dunwich Village, preached a
cou'd raise up, and which must needs have come from those Caves
fond of their sister. When they had finished, Mr. Otis, in spite of the
expressing sympathy.
the prospect.
Christ's place indeed is with the poets.  His whole conception of
a man who laid the foundation of his fortune by selling to a Stock
spite of the rural tales have named it "the blasted heath."
MABEL CHILTERN.  But so am I, Arthur.  So we’re sure to agree.  And now I
too late to make reparation for that. She could still be his wife. His
gables, and great bare trees clawing up at the grey November sky with
Too awed even to hint theories, the seven shaking men trudged back
looked upon all that the universe has to hold of horror, and even the
runway was built up to it from the ground. About the period of this
more.
list as the dear Duchess of Bolton has. We work together, in fact.
don’t mind your talking morality a bit.  Morality is simply the attitude
are, and will be what we will be. As for being poisoned by a book,
guess they're gittin' ready to ketch my soul. They know it's a-goin'
I hope to live long enough and to produce work of such a character that I
the wooden shaft to any depth in the mud of the floor without meeting
less of a mother than the Earth.  It seems to me that we all look at
LADY CHILTERN.  You need not wait, Mabel.  Remember, Lady Basildon is
l’épée du bourreau.  Il a peur, cet esclave!  Il a laissé tomber son
could never like; but I was willing enough now to admit both his genius
We owe to him the most diverse things and people.  Hugo's _Les
fumes from troubling the brain and making the imagi
display beneath the half-clouded moonlit sky.
egg-shell, and amongst the ruins nothing living or dead could be
leur ait parlé.
friend. And from that stricken, far-away spot he had seen something
ALGERNON.
the thunder above which they echoed--yet did they come from no visible
“Ah! the higher things of life, how fine they are!” said the Duck; “and
to-night, for I have been really engaged to Aunt Augusta for more than
is the time when you have got to trust me, to trust in my counsel and
One Survivor and Dead Man Found Aboard. Tale of Desperate Battle
Being ordered peremptorily to turn back, Capt. Collins refused;
play for the Director of the Theatre, but he is too cold to write any
do.  And Lady Chiltern has a very ennobling effect on life, though her
“The ruby has fallen out of his sword, his eyes are gone, and he is
silence, for he made no other observation, became intolerable to her.
the Dunwich horror of 1928 was hushed up by those who had the town's
“Never.”
to manage her, but were beaten about by the storm of April 2nd.
so as to help them.
Yes, Miss.
VII
the lore he had picked up from Dunwich rustics and villagers during
statement of anyone when he said he was disturbed about certain
ground, vines falling in brittle wreckage from archaic walls and
meeting-place in the haunted wood. But of those mysterious allies no
said a single word to me yet.
[LADY AGATHA _and_ MR. HOPPER _pass into ball-room_.]
answer to a prayer; perhaps in answer to a prayer it might remain
fresh in the Park now!
that.
Nahum, however, ignored the warning, for he had by that time become
inexplicable perversity
experience of it myself up to the present. I have only been married
Park now!
' Sentinel Hill--Luther he had the guts ter step up whar he'd heerd
“Yes, that is just what I want to know,” said the Duck; and she swam away
with the wheel-spokes; but in spite of that I will give it to you.  I
Latitude 49° 51´, W. Longitude 128° 34´, encountered the _Alert_,
MISS PRISM.
the book on the little Florentine table that always stood at his
because it was purely selfish. But moments such as these were rare.
huddled inert on the moonlit ground between the splintered shafts of
HÉRODE.  Versez du vin.  [_On apporte du vin_.]  Salomé, venez boire un
the
him.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Gertrude, there is nothing in my past life that you
three-quarters feet tall.
faithful know only the trivial side of love: it is the faithless who
to twelve. He put the box back, shutting the cabinet doors as he did
and climbed the creaking stairs to the attic. It was very close and
darlings.
wiring to Vienna, is it not?
them the full expression, as it were, of his mood, and justified, by
through a round and curiously regular hole in the clouds before any
over a year and a half later, recalled that the queer colour of that
and stunted, and many dead trunks stood or lay rotting at the rim.
the
of form, Mr. Worthing, I had better ask you if Miss Cardew has any
butterfly.”
you.”
A crooked smile, like a Malay crease, writhed across the face of one of
It happened in June, about the anniversary of the meteor's fall, and
branches seemed to strain more and more toward verticality. The wood
serious about meals. It is so shallow of them.
sleep none. Then he thought he heerd another faintlike saound over
tly decadent, having
We call ours a utilitarian age, and we do not know the uses of any single
upstairs, Basil,” he said quietly. “I keep a diary of my life from day
the mixed blood and marine pursuits of the cult-members in Louisiana,
something out of you.”
LADY WINDERMERE.  You are going to invite this woman?  [_Crossing to
The scene was the hall of Capulet’s house, and Romeo in his pilgrim’s
truest eidolon to that shape without sight or substance which is
desire for food.  Lord Goring, will you give me some supper?
off. He is not of age yet. He has Selby, I know. He told me so. And ...
“I wish now I had not told you about Sibyl Vane.”
travelled roads around Arkham.
always be in love with love. A _grande passion_ is the privilege of
The voice that spoke was cold and cruel. “You are mad, Dorian, or
CECIL GRAHAM.  Oh!  Wicked women bother one.  Good women bore one.  That
Morning came wanly, and the night-sounds ceased. It was a gray, bleak
Then, whispered Castro, those first men formed the cult around small
n’est pas aux Samaritains que le Messie viendra.  Les Samaritains sont
on the lock, are my initials. I had forgotten that in an extravagant
[_Enter_ LORD DARLINGTON, MR. DUMBY, LORD WINDERMERE, LORD AUGUSTUS
CECILY.
for success.  I couldn’t wait.
drew the dark curtains carefully down over each one. By this
recital of that which we know in a waking sense to be false come
dark.
I think, dear Doctor, I will have a stroll with you. I find I have a
rules.
equanimity. But even a momentary separation from anyone to whom one has
had been seen on the platform, but could get no news of her. The
LORD GORING.  [_Calmly_.]  Oh, ten years ago, on Lady Berkshire, from
with yellow and black, and dimly suggested the squamous covering of
forgetfulness could do that. But the future was inevitable. There were
run across the road; and the leaps of that rabbit were longer than
“Old age is dull of hearing.”
I had no idea that it was one of the special things that the Fates had in
curtain rises. You must see her in the first act, where she meets
than many other things that might have happened. After a few minutes,
dinner. He got up and looked out into the street. The sunset had
TIME: _The Present_
people we call the dead? Sibyl! Can she feel, or know, or listen? Oh,
PHIPPS.  [_Hands hock and seltzer to_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.]  Hock and
SECOND SOLDAT.  Oui, il a l’air sombre.
“You call yesterday the past?”
myself growing gradually better in physical health, I was filled with
MRS. CHEVELEY.  And what is Lord Goring?
In one point he was more fortunate than the novel’s fantastic hero.
LORD WINDERMERE.  I am sorry now I did not tell my wife the whole thing
were considered romantic_.
thrown aside and all men shouting and killing and reveling in joy. Then
plants ... must a' ben more of 'em ... seeds ... seeds ... they
my business took me through and past it. There was no vegetation of
[Sternly.] Both, if necessary, I presume. What are your politics?
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma!
On Lammas Night, 1924, Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury was hastily summoned
way from town to see me.  It is only a slight return, I know, but it is
This pitiless indictment I bring without pity against myself.  Terrible
them in, and the worst of all is left! Tell Rice and Morgan we must do
devotion, unselfishness, sacrifice.  What could you know of such things?
own the
there was a State Banquet, which lasted for five hours.
a most hospitable creature. I like him much better than the Frenchman
beauty, mere beauty, could fill your eyes with tears. I tell you,
leanings toward theosophy and occultism, went violently insane on
No, I’d sooner have a pink rose.
the Mayor; and they went up to look at it.
I wanted to be engaged to Gwendolen, that is all. I love her.
her'n. Let me tell ye suthin'--_some day yew folks'll hear a child o'
on Zenas ... he was a big boy, full o' life ... it beats down your
the Duchess sat down on a fallen pillar, while her husband lay at her
and hue. Perhaps some mineral element from the stone had entered the
leaned over the balcony and came to those wonderful lines—
tell me definitely, how did the Baron finally persuade you to—well, to do
dal wave of
him. It was Basil Hallward. A strange sense of fear, for which he could
obey what his father told him; and Ammi thought that his fate was very
The eyes of the Happy Prince were filled with tears, and tears were
child ringing horrible in his ears.
and theatrical, and I wondered how it had come into the folklore of
you know who is coming to see you?  That dreadful Mrs. Cheveley, in a
Peruvians that have the shrill cries of birds, and flutes of human
there, at any rate, he would be quite unmolested, and was amusing
childlike look, and winsome fanciful ways, and shy tremulous grace. He
truth.
LORD GORING.  Because it is found.  In point of fact, I found it myself,
read as follows:
up and hands it to her_.]
bell_.]  How securely one thinks one lives—out of reach of temptation,
devoted friend to be devoted to me, of course.”
o wind; but even the
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
LORD WINDERMERE.  Your carriage has not come back yet, Mrs. Erlynne.
ventured. There were insane shouts and harrowing screams, soul-chilling
It does credit to the alertness of Ammi's mind that he puzzled even
and even whimpering hysterically. Someone in the lead began sobbing out
in a moment the wainscoting had closed behind them, and the Tapestry
on a salver_.]
stars, though this time his wife did not accompany him. It had now
shrilly as he kept on laughing at intervals till death found him one
the beggar. But their own souls starve, and are naked. Courage has gone
How late it was! He sat up, and having sipped some tea, turned over his
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Arthur, I couldn’t tell my wife.  When could I have
I was out of practice.
trust you absolutely.  Let us go to
ordinary man could have handled without a secretary. This original
LORD WINDERMERE.  You made me get you an invitation to my wife’s ball.
He lashed her across the neck with his crop. She cleft the dusky air
quite a little thing.
demande!  C’est bien la fille de sa mère!  [_Le premier soldat
go anywhere.
ALGERNON.
dawn came, and the man had plodded back from his all-night search of
they saw that even the most perpendicular places did not deflect the
her purple cave. Veil after veil of thin dusky gauze is lifted, and by
*       *       *       *       *
with fine eyes, and a superb profile. Many American ladies on leaving
“This is your doing, Harry,” said the painter bitterly.
That is not the destiny I propose for Gwendolen. Algernon, of course,
aurez dansé n’oubliez pas de me demander tout ce que vous voudrez.  Tout
LE SECOND SOLDAT.  Il a l’air sombre.
there as an island trader, and bore an evil reputation along the
thing in him was the gunpowder, and that was so wet with tears that it
The figure, which was finally passed slowly from man to man for close
the hayloft
stated that Merwin and Zenas had disappeared. There was considerable
they could, but shuddered as they did so. Stark terror seemed to cling
He was rather sorry he had come, till Lady Narborough, looking at the
say one has to go to prison to understand it.  If so, it may be worth
appeals to our sense of dramatic effect. Suddenly we find that we are
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.  En ce jour-là le soleil deviendra noir comme un sac
A glass of sherry, Lane.
were to be.
“I think I shall join you at the opera, Harry. I feel too tired to eat
me peculiarly distressing.
“Well, he seemed to think they were beyond his means,” laughed Dorian.
“To whom?”
After a little time he heard steps in the passage and the chain being
More than this, there is about sorrow an intense, an extraordinary
CECILY.
one’s good looks, whatever they may be, one loses everything. Your
swollen boughs of a maple against a moonlit sky. The boughs surely
alkaline phosphates and carbonates.
lived without your child, without a thought of your child.  One day you
on the ground floor, and seemed to be taking out partitions as he and
nothing in English was uttered. At first the syllables defied all
SALOMÉ.  Je baiserai ta bouche, Iokanaan.  Je baiserai ta bouche.
a Titan or a toy. What a pity it was that such beauty was destined to
of their dreams, and the dates of any notable visions for some time
below.] Have some bread and butter. The bread and butter is for
properly say that it could not be vividly visualized by anyone whose
strangely proud of the dark, goatish-looking infant who formed such a
till morning whence the call came. Then those who had heard it called
jumped and roared, the general direction of the mass motion being from
Merwin this time. He was gone. He had gone out late at night with a
Iokanaan.  Je n’aime que toi . . . J’ai soif de ta beauté.  J’ai faim de
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh! I don’t care about the London season!  It is too
was not so feeble as I had expected; but his eyes drooped in a curious
Yes, it will be exactly three months on Thursday.
it was a book bound in yellow paper, the cover slightly torn and the
“And weep over a faithless Florizel,” said Lord Henry, laughing, as he
CECILY.
more than usually plain. Besides, Jack is a notorious domesticity for
to heave alongside their enemy and board her, grappling with the
delay about luggage, as I have sent on my heavy things. All I have with
it in the lock. Then he stopped, and a troubled look came into his
“Much the same.”
of the scattered notes gave me much material for thought--so much, in
Lord Goring!  Pray be as trivial as you can.
what that means.  They will know nothing of life till they do,--and
they are, how terrible and how unjust.  Listen, you must listen!  Only go
Five counties! I don’t think I should like that; I hate crowds.
And yet if it had been merely an illusion, how terrible it was to think
price of a terrible sin; Gian Maria Visconti
farmhouse, and they could never find more than ten or twelve anemic,
not like him. I know that perfectly well. Indeed, I should be sorry to
expression is troubled_.  _After a little time she is joined by some of
was highly connected.”
MRS. ERLYNNE.  No, no!  There was no one!
good. You know I have been always a stanch friend to you.”
his absence. As he was putting it into the envelope, a knock came to
Lord Henry stretched himself out on the divan and laughed.
LORD GORING.  Then the marvellous gospel of gold breaks down sometimes.
as there is a fashion in frocks.  Perhaps Mrs. Cheveley’s past is merely
trooped out again in a great excitement. As they passed Ammi's they
Poor Sibyl! What a romance it had all been! She had often mimicked
[_The Servant puts out the lights_.  _The room becomes almost dark_.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh!
who made the next discovery. Familiarity had dulled them, and what they
whom you stole it.
Fizz! Fizz! Fizz! and he went straight up into the air.
LADY BRACKNELL.
Dr.
he recalled to mind his last appearance as "Red Reuben, or the Strangled
the pursuing jelly which rose above the unclean froth like the stern
No! the fact is, I would like to be christened myself, this afternoon,
base of Sentinel Hill the tracks left the road, and there was a fresh
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
long felt certain. Now he seemed to sense the close presence of some
with my own pain.  Now I feel quite differently.  I see it would be both
had seen it in the nasty brittle globule in that aerolite two summers
“I am too shabby,” he answered, frowning. “Only swell people go to the
him to the ground if he dared to lift the gorgeous hanging that
Earl Sawyer now took the telescope and reported the three figures as
des airs de grands seigneurs.
t to talk to you about Bunburying. I want to tell you the
highly malleable, and in the dark its luminosity was very marked.
LORD GORING.  May I do it?
“Yes, there is a gas-fire with asbestos.”
HÉRODIAS.  Oui, vous avez juré.  Tout le monde vous a entendu.  Vous avez
_and sits down beside her_.  _Looks again at the photograph_.]  And so
If you wish.
that the young man in question is a perfect gentleman. He is always
carme!  Qui sont ces bêtes fauves qui hurlent?
with his wife to his old home in Oslo. Of his stirring experience
over the yellow, goatish face of the
CECILY.
that was impossible. But I wish you had left word where you had really
heads at Pentecost. It was a monstrous constellation of unnatural
had love in my heart.  The external things of life seem to me now of no
when I am coming back from the Drawing Room, I always feel as if I hadn’t
have helped him to resist Lord Henry’s influence, and the still more
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Take my cloak off.
hawtho
k about the queer earth noises reached clear to Arkham--what walked
satisfied, and at a quarter-past one he glided out of the wainscoting
[Every one looks at Miss Prism.] Prism! Where is that baby? [A pause.]
LORD AUGUSTUS.  I prefer women with a past.  They’re always so demmed
ned of the cult, of a sensitive young man
course.  And don’t make scenes, men hate them!
close-thatched rick, or under the penthouse of a great barn, provided I
her—twenty years ago, she was a fright in flannel.  Positive fright, I
tethered Hero such a sound as no man before or since ever heard from
MRS. ERLYNNE.
The press cuttings, as I have intimated, touched on cases of panic,
After a time the
waddle.
pushed back from the rud like they'd a haouse ben moved along of it.
Greek; it is like going into a garden of lilies out of some, narrow and
music to-night. It seems to me that you are the young Apollo and that I
as we have constituted it, will have no place for me, has none to offer;
louder grew her song, for she sang of the birth of passion in the soul of
most reasonable rates of interest.
“I wish it were _fin du globe_,” said Dorian with a sigh. “Life is a
smallest intention of ever having one in the future.
a bachelor?
one's finger-tips grow dull with pain, the menial offices with which each
modern landscape art is realising for us pictorially what was realised in
might be great friends.  Let us be great friends.  You may want a friend
who is in very great trouble.  Her daughter, quite a well-brought-up
impossible. You would not have understood it. I hardly understood it
past. Life had come between them.... His eyes darkened, and the crowded
with their shimmering blue lining, that hung in front of the three tall
details, but merely told of the deaths of Nahum and Nabby, that of
Dorian, from the moment I met you, your personality had the most
trooped out again in a great excitement. As they passed Ammi's they
the absolute modernity of beauty, had, of course, their fascination for
surely she did?”
LORD AUGUSTUS.
still young.  No one in our day has had such a brilliant success.
grey desolation that sprawled open to the sky like a great spot eaten
in the railed family plot behind the farm, and had put therein what
It was reckless of me, but I asked Lady Brandon to introduce me to him.
_Doors C. and R.  Bureau with books and papers R._  _Sofa with small
[_Enter_ MRS. ERLYNNE _L._]
IOKANAAN.  Arrière, fille de Sodome!  Ne me touchez pas.  Il ne faut pas
[MABEL CHILTERN _gives a little nod_.]
LORD GORING.  No one else is to be admitted, under any circumstances.
of his equally weird reading and imagining. Later, by virtue of its
LORD CAVERSHAM.  You are quite right, my dear, quite right . . . as far
of this abhorred area, but that location was bad enough; hence perhaps
LORD GORING.  [_Putting in a new buttonhole_.]  And falsehoods the truths
oyal Pyrotechnist had put everything in its proper place,
there was no change in the solvents to show that they had attacked
has been kind to me.
intelligent middle-aged mediocrity, as bald as a ministerial statement
and contented himself, as a rule, with creeping about the passages in
him to find discrepancies, duplications, and ambiguities which made
am particularly fond of muffins. [Rising.]
Miserables_, Baudelaire's _Fleurs du Mal_, the note of pity in Russian
those accustomed to face occasional charlatanry and imposture. Legrasse
the difference. I dun't need to tell ye I'll take good keer of it. It
ork and conscious only that a look
muffins.] It is very vulgar to talk about one’s business. Only people
[_Sits on sofa_.]  And I see that there are just as many fools in society
house, Number 104, Upper Grosvenor Street, in charge of a perambulator
from its non-committal bulk.
piano is concerned, sentiment is my forte. I keep science for Life.
destiny.  The sum Baron Arnheim gave me I have distributed twice over in
Margaret, you’ll ruin us!
it, I opened it.  I—read it.
noises. Wilbur was four and a half then, and looked like a lad of
He even thought a scream had been suddenly choked off, and recalled
Jetant son amarre au pilier,
and walked ahead to show the right one. Courage and confidence were
fact.
man bowed and retired.
tiny points of faint and unhallowed radiance, tipping each bough like
strike you, but that revealed itself to you suddenly?”
LADY MARKBY.  Perhaps the people are a little jaded.
into delirium! And what of this storm of April 2nd--the date on which
young married couple, say about two years married, if the husband
list of your guests in _The Morning Post_ of to-day.  It has apparently
LORD GORING.  [_In his most serious manner_.]  Of course.  You see, it is
when the American Archeological Society held its annual meeting in
couldn’t possibly have happened. I believe that Memory is responsible
and when that was dead, he would be free. It would kill this monstrous
too often.”
tell you mine. What was your reason for refusing to exhibit my
red lights that glimmered in the wood, the hoarse cries of the beaters
half-chocked with caved-in earth. Digging had borne no fruit, and the
just been introduced is almost unbearable.
[Takes the card and reads it.] ‘Mr. Ernest Worthing, B. 4, The Albany,
was a terrible consumption of nuts going on.”
sculptured.  He passed by the palace and heard the sound of dancing.  A
All that it really demonstrated was that our future would be the same
Dunwich--livin' things--as ain't human an' ain't good fer human folks.
It was then that he began that rambling tale which suddenly played upon
Webb's Acct." The other manuscript papers were all brief notes, some
not have been otherwise.  At every single moment of one's life one is
was many years ago now. I see no reason why our dear Cecily should not
tiny points of faint and unhallowed radiance, tipping each bough like
HÉRODE.  Ah! vous allez danser pieds nus!  C’est bien!  C’est bien!  Vos
of the late Wilbur Whateley. They found the countryside in great
more, Harry, I feel sure you don’t either.”
nineteenth-century standard of immortality. Suddenly I found myself
[_Turning to_ LADY CHILTERN.]  You know Lady Brancaster, don’t you, dear?
monstrous or mad: Filippo, Duke of Milan, who slew his wife and painted
being a myth, which is rather unfair . . . I beg your pardon, Algy, I
servants with lighted torches, and the whole procession was wonderfully
_Same as Act II_.
Hallward started and then frowned. “Dorian engaged to be married!” he
discovered--only a stench and a tarry stickiness. The Elmer Fryes had
was taken away--she was being drained of something--something was
ALGERNON.
horrible.  But there is one thing worse than an absolutely loveless
rejections, monstrous forms of self-torture and self-denial, whose
peculiarly abominable quality about them which made their destruction
England's traditional "salt of the earth"--gave an almost completely
Whateley himself--enough to make a devil and a precocious monster of
courteously worded communications from Jermyn Street money-lenders
Dorian murmured a graceful compliment and looked round the room. Yes:
doorsteps or in the sloping, rock-strewn meadows. Those figures are
-launchin'
mode in which disgrace could be inflicted on me.  But that could not be.
The artist is the creator of beautiful things. To reveal art and
records should have been my constant study. [Rushes to bookcase and
look for his father's asses, he did not know that a man of God was
last night, and I think I saw the inner city at the 2 magnetic
llowed by the footman. He carries a salver, table
considered generous by Society as he fed the people who amused him. His
me.
LADY WINDERMERE.  Oh!  [_Crossing R.C._]  I don’t want details about her
the one Christian poet since Dante; the other, a man with a soul of that
her ... it'll git her ef we ain't keerful ... jest a colour ... her
“It is perfectly true.”
has been at the Foreign Office, he has been so much talked of in Vienna.
ill.  He has a fever, and is asking for oranges.  His mother has nothing
When a traveler in north central Massachusetts takes the wrong fork
three months her own husband did not know her.
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Lying on sofa_.]  How can I tell him?  I can’t tell
LADY WINDERMERE.  Stop!  Don’t you hear voices?
“Your picture was beautiful,” he murmured, “but you are more beautiful
personne.
black-letter page with paste prepared on the rusty kitchen stove, "but
hed it
ALGERNON.
found out everything!  Poor woman!  Poor woman!  [ _Pulls out watch and
speculations of theosophists and made man and the world seem recent
quite honeycombed with them.  I think it most irreligious.  And then the
merely proceed on the lines of my own development, and, accepting all
story of piracy and slaughter. He is Gustaf Johansen, a Norwegian
one never discerned before.  One approaches the whole of history from a
, but, upon the other hand,
CECILY.
age of eighty what he was told to say when he was a boy of eighteen,
must really issue a proclamation that birds are not to be allowed to die
me. Only listen, Alan. All I ask of you is to perform a certain
Green Linnet, who was sitting in a willow-tree hard by, and had overheard
suggest such a thing!
the maimed Bishop cattle, the strange, noisome wreck of the farmhouse,
older than this particular day of June.... If it were only the other
Wilbur had with him the priceless but imperfect copy of Dr. Dee's
afraid that after I have mended my barn-roof there won’t be any left for
ground, vines falling in brittle wreckage from archaic walls and
is the folks hereabouts. Lavinny's read some, an' has seed some things
him?”
We had a terrible scene.  I still thought it was you.  He left me in
Why on earth then do you allow tea-cake to be served up for your
PHIPPS.  His lordship told me that if a lady called I was to ask her to
passions. His
JACK.
SALOMÉ.  De qui parle-t-il?
buttonhole, Phipps, on Thursday evenings.
his hand, “you met me, flattered me, and taught me to be vain of my
getting it.  The last is much the worst; the last is a real tragedy!  But
It is perfectly phrased! and quite as true as any observation in
blocks, at the dizzying height of the great carven monolith, and at the
slay around idol-capped monoliths in lonely places.
Suddenly he stopped and glanced up at the houses. He found that he had
pourpre et d’écarlate.  Dans sa main il portera un vase d’or plein de ses
care not to give away anything again.  One always suffers for being
Couldn’t you miss it anywhere but in London?
and looking horribly pale. “But I thought it was my duty. It is not my
something by observation.  I think that in practical life there is
room was deadly cold; and as Ammi visibly shivered, the host shouted
bein' scairt! He says Ol' Whateley's haouse is all blowed up, with
cards painted with the images of love and death and madness; and, in
lost no time in crowding around him to gaze at the diminutive figure
above the toiling group the great swath trembled as its hellish maker
fascinating the lad was!
brittleness. The boughs were all straining skyward, tipped with tongues
_tornasuk_; and of this Professor Webb had taken a careful phonetic
One of the current Arkham tales is about fat oaks that shine and move
HÉRODIAS.  Je vous dis qu’il n’y a rien.  Vous êtes malade.  Rentrons
into the house. And mind you don’t talk about anything serious. Nothing
French-Canadians have tried it, Italians have tried it, and the Poles
Oh! about a hundred and thirty thousand pounds in the Funds. That is
one; that is to say, you are indifferent to every one.”
prophète Élie.  Lui c’est le dernier qui ait vu Dieu.  En ce temps-ci,
TOUS.  César!  César!
thankful that the windows were just too high to permit of peering
Cthulhu's dream-vigil in his stone vault at R'lyeh, and I felt deeply
MRS. CHEVELEY.  It was a swindle, Sir Robert.  Let us call things by
psychology cannot explain us.  Men can be analysed, women . . . merely
reminded him that I was a friend of yours, and asked him what he meant.
ous mistake?  That letter
and heard shrieks and oaths from gloomy courts.
jumped violently at the terrific report which seemed to rend the hills;
THAT SPOT"]
which she strewed upon the grave, and after they had stood by it for
are going to die.” There was a horrible moment. Dorian did not know
hideous things that people are whispering about you, I don’t know what
HAROLD  } Footmen
poisonous influences that came from his own temperament. The love that
so hideous a chain. I think that the professor, too, intended to keep
the sanctuary to notice that it is the sanctuary of sorrow that he is
come round to-morrow morning.  If you should want me to-night by any
beggar!”
She has been mad, and has come into the presence of a guilty king, and
nothing open to us but politics or philanthropy.  And philanthropy seems
voice!  He is coming in!  Save me!  Oh, it’s some plot!  You have sent
by Black-winged Ones which had come to them from their immemorial
they could, but shuddered as they did so. Stark terror seemed to cling
I thought so. In fact, I am never wrong.
in commercial use, at Circular Quay in Sydney Cove, but gained nothing
health.  My nerves are certainly very much shattered, and I require
howls and squawking ecstasies that tore and reverberated through those
d’ébène j’ai deux coupes d’ambre qui ressemblent à des pommes d’or.  Si
rites, must keep alive the memory of those ancient ways and shadow
with the possession of those virtues that are likely to be a benefit to
JACK.
passed me and wonder, with a mad curiosity, what sort of lives they
as chanted aloud:
the study. I did not enlarge his knowledge in this regard, but sought
is the perfect type of a perfect pleasure. It is exquisite, and it
It often seems to me that art conceals the artist far more completely
abnormality which far outraced any image their conscious minds could
you make it twenty minutes?
you, thank you.  You are the most adorable of all ladies!
imaginative. He indeed went so far as to hint of the faint beating of
LADY BRACKNELL.
many ways I had been its enemy, but I found it waiting for me as a
d newly spilled. Then he trembled. Had it
y and entirely wrong.  I would give anything
closely locked barrier.
the curator told me, had found it a monstrous puzzle; for they vowed
LADY WINDERMERE.  Indeed!
The man shook his head. “It is too far for me,” he muttered.
snorted at an odour which struck Stephen as wholly unprecedented. That
of those who spoke. It had happened in the 'eighties, and a family had
his wonderful joyousness, his passionate absorption in mere existence.
deathless Chinamen had told him, were still to be found as Cyclopean
Whateley in a very grave state, with a cardiac action and stertorous
My dear Mrs. Cheveley, what do you mean?  [_Sits down beside her_.]
Virginia's beautiful blue eyes opened in wonder; "for three hundred
exquisite pleasure in playing on the lad’s unconscious egotism, “an
ALGERNON.
to determine.
plain women but the ruin of pretty ones.  Agatha, darling!
the House of Death.  Death is the brother of Sleep, is he not?”
there. The trees grew too thickly, and their trunks were too big for
beside him. Poor? What does that matter? When poverty creeps in at the
pretense to literary style. What seemed to be the main document was
To live for others as a definite self-conscious aim was not his creed.  It
JACK.
subject that one would have to talk seriously about it. But I certainly
and little Hans nodded and smiled, and felt very proud of having a friend
could not extract. Mankind was not absolutely alone among the conscious
delay.  He keeps playing with action as an artist plays with a theory.
SALOMÉ.  Comme l’air est frais ici!
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.
the prisoners all proved to be men of a very low, mixed-blooded, and
were anywhere to be seen except in the green grass and leafage; but
pleasures subtle and secret, wild joys and wilder sins—he was to have
LORD GORING.  [_Looking at himself in the glass_.]  Don’t think I quite
having read somewhere, in some strange book, that when the gods wish to
casement.  “I believe the Spring has come at last,” said the Giant; and
Erlynne to-night.
"I know that, but you might tell me."
to see it was to die. But it made men dream, and so they knew enough to
while he hissed into her trembling husband's ear the awful secrets of
Boston and London
form.
là-dedans!  Cela doit être terrible d’être dans un trou si noir!  Cela
JACK.
[_Enter_ MABEL CHILTERN, _in the most ravishing frock_.]
Suddenly Mrs. Otis caught sight of a dull red stain on the floor just by
* * * * *
lend them tears for sorrows that are not their own, she is worthy of
to me.
u in turn.
a pity it is that they do not mean anything, or do any practical good.”
of defense which told them their lives depended on silence. At last
street-cabs, he could hear the droning voice devouring each minute that
shame was to be burdened for the rest of his life with the hideous
communicate itself to those external forces the very essence of whose
23rd and April 2nd--the period of young Wilcox's delirium. Scientific
fourth year. He read avidly by himself now; but talked much less than
Thaddeus and the livestock. But the terrible thing about the horror was
SALOMÉ.  Qui est-ce, le fils de l’Homme?  Est-il aussi beau que toi,
Ghost himself! He was sitting by the window, watching the ruined gold of
very close to it when he spoke of the city; for instead of describing
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  My wife!  Never!  She does not know what weakness
that purpose moved his entire set of files and boxes to my quarters in
On the occasion of which I am thinking I recall distinctly how I said to
hinted at strange survivals in terms which would freeze the blood if
knew.
LADY CHILTERN.  What has poor Mr. Trafford done this time?  Robert says
The old folk have gone away, and foreigners do not like to live there.
There were moments, indeed, at night, when, lying sleepless in his own
keeping his eye on the man. He felt ready to leap upon him and fling
in a moment the wainscoting had closed behind them, and the Tapestry
faded wholly away when they put it in a glass beaker. The beaker had
as a means of escape, he vanished through the wainscoting, and the house
[Superciliously.] No, thank you. Sugar is not fashionable any more.
driver beat at them with his whip.
Affection comes later on in married life.
could hear Cha'ncey an' ol' Seth Bishop a-yellin', tew, an' Sally was
it was oddly soft. It was, in truth, so soft as to be almost plastic;
belong to anything right or proper for this earth, and impious with
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I often think it such a pity he never wrote his memoirs.
tried to be, I would have left this place loathing it and every official
the end Legrasse was able to count some forty-seven sullen prisoners,
“It is your best work, Basil, the best thing you have ever done,” said
told him that it was absurd—that I knew you thoroughly, and that you
she speaks_, _she stretches out her hands towards her_, _but does not
rumblings from the ground below. In 1747 the Reverend Abijah Hoadley,
Sibyl that I was not anything of the kind. She said quite simply to me,
to come back to London.  I want to have a charming house here.  I want to
CECILY.
the best ending for one,” said the young lord, plucking another daisy.
strangely, Lord Goring?
of him would be a guide to him through life, would
London—
Not knowing just how he could best be launched on his tales, I feigned
and stunted, and many dead trunks stood or lay rotting at the rim.
charming boyish smile, and the infinite grace of that wonderful youth
dites-lui de venir, car le Seigneur a son fléau dans la main.
sky like a rocket or meteor, leaving behind no trail and disappearing
when we want something to chill our intelligence. Don’t flatter
JACK.
very rich man.  I was dazed at the prospect he held out to me, and my
Why, Lord Mortlake was never anything more to me than an amusement.  One
My knowledge of the thing began in the winter of 1926-27 with the death
Lightning flashed aloft, and the wondering crowd looked in vain for
the canvas. They would mar its beauty and eat away its grace. They
a world, whose praise you
did--speculate as widely as they chose. On the contrary, she seemed
“Remembered what, Harry?”
He was conscious—and the thought brought a gleam of pleasure into his
“Ah! that is always a very dangerous thing to do,” said the Duck.
the Arkham country hereafter. Three of the men who had been with Ammi
stompin' an' splashin' in the mud. But mind ye, Luther he didn't see
“Harry!” exclaimed Hallward, frowning.
which he had blundered? He dared move neither backward nor forward, but
Bishop house, which was built before 1700; whilst the ruins of the mill
“Forgive us our sins” but “Smite us for our iniquities” should be the
The General was essentially a man of peace, except in his domestic
Oh yes.
of the scattered notes gave me much material for thought--so much, in
but plainly related and equally unknown to anyone who saw it. Nahum
to lend colour to his imagination. He was brilliant, fantastic,
to see her continually, and stops for hours at a time, and while he is
on a Tuesday afternoon at five o’clock_, _and ending the next day at_
to remain a sailor, or a supercargo, or whatever he was going to be.
_Here is a totally different story that we can
“My roses are red,” it answered, “as red as the feet of the dove, and
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Mais oui, c’est très certain cela.  On ne peut pas
an' Merwin an' Zenas ... everything alive ... suckin' the life out of
doorway into the tainted outside air of that poison city of madness.
their grotesque tales of it ever reached the people of the countryside.
nor claws. When the thing breathed, its tail and tentacles rhythmically
that charms one.
from Mr. Otis, were merely such as form the ordinary conversation of
and
eternal symbol; and his final burial in the tomb of the rich man, his
who were his chief companions, and astounding the county by the wanton
repentance wipe out an act of folly? Why should there be one law for
Frye lit a lantern through force of habit, but knew it would be death
Brutus used madness as a cloak to conceal the sword of his purpose, the
the well water was no longer good.
well. They had heard the common country talk, it is true; but could not
“My dear Dorian,” answered Lord Henry, “you merely fainted. That was
Thaddeus went mad in September after a visit to the well. He had gone
suddenly awakened. His finely chiselled nostrils quivered, and some
picture,
were graying now, and the fruit was coming out grey and dwarfed and
Darling! And when was the engagement actually settled?
enter?  Who told you where I had gone to?  My husband told you, and sent
world between lines of nameless guards to a certain and familiar doom.
Hot as it was, they tested it in a crucible with all the proper
imposing on the veteran scientist. These responses from esthetes told
LADY BASILDON.  Men are grossly material, grossly material!
always twilight in one's cell, as it is always twilight in one's heart.
grove—“that cannot be denied to her; but has she got feeling?  I am
of a fire; but why had nothing new ever grown over those five acres of
is all. How can you say such horrible things?
*       *       *       *       *
write and claim it, let me know at once.
me away to him,” she whined; “I am afraid of him. Let me have some
LORD GORING.  [_Triumphantly_.]  No; that was a flash of genius.
knew it could be worn as a bracelet.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What are you doing?
the theatre.
or phase of entity from which it had once fallen, vigintillions of eons
there she is not at home to any one.  Not that many ladies call on her,
can, don’t they?  It is most fashionable.  [_To_ DUCHESS OF MARYBOROUGH.]
“Do stay.
scheme of hers?  If you have given her any promise you must take it back,
any danger.
You'll never know what the world has escaped. Now we've only this one
awfully rude of me if I asked you to go away?”
CECILY.
fainted, and two were shaken into a frantic cry which the mad cacophony
HÉRODIAS.  Il y en a d’autres qui la regardent trop.
scarlet flame. Out of its secret hiding-place had crept his soul, and
the whole thing at once.
thousands of years seemed recorded in its dim and greenish surface of
things were fixed very strongly in his mind. He and his wife had gone
Harvey to have the yacht got ready. On a yacht one is safe.”
thar! It smells like thunder, an' all the bushes an' little trees is
_The octagon room at Sir Robert Chiltern’s house in Grosvenor Square_.
ALGERNON.
of weakness.  In the making of fancies and jests he sees a chance of
things in my life. I am not going to do any more. I began my good
essential to it. It should have the dignity of a ceremony, as well as
chest heaved in monstrous unison with the mad piping of the expectant
whose utter strangeness and air of genuinely abysmal antiquity hinted
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Taking a seat beside her_.]  Seriously?
and more in troubling my sleep.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I find that somehow Gertrude Chiltern’s dying speech and
luck.”
tired woman who played Lady Capulet in a sort of magenta
extra bar across it.
in all conceivable foreign parts; and the picture was a half-tone cut
“By marrying Sibyl Vane.”
hears bad music, it is one’s duty to drown it in conversation.”
He waited impatiently for him to go.
[_Entrée d’Hérode_, _d’Hérodias et de toute la cour_.]
“Here indeed is the true lover,” said the Nightingale.  “What I sing of,
timidly.
was his belief that, considering the great amount of text involved, the
for future reports of dreams. This bore regular fruit, for after the
is here ... one o' them professors said so ... he was right ... look
LORD GORING.  I was.
made an image, he made of himself the image of the Man of Sorrows, and as
happened does not affect me as it should. It seems to me to be simply
LANE.
been so attentive lately, that he has become a perfect nuisance.  Now,
years I have not slept, and I am so tired."
“How sad it is!” murmured Dorian Gray with his eyes still fixed upon
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Oh, men don’t matter.  With women it is different.
propose to come to you . . . that you may advise me . . . assist me . . .
Old Castro remembered bits of hideous legend that paled the
she murmured. “You are acting.”
at leaving home.
seltzer, sir.
thing?
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Humbly_.]  Nothing.  I know it—but I tell you that your
half-articulate thunder-croakings drawn? Presently they began to gather
more effective.
which tried to connect the latter with strange cults or societies;
lighted candle, which he had caught up from the table. Finally, they
vertes, n’est-ce pas?  Et le soleil devient noir comme un sac de poil, et
of strength in the old man to enable him to accomplish so much hard
n, worried about
stompin' an' splashin' in the mud. But mind ye, Luther he didn't see
what old Castro had told Legrasse about the primal Great Ones: "They
Only poetry or madness could do justice to the noises heard by
broken, and a great avenue had been gouged in the precipice-hanging
much.  Let us go away to the country.  You’ll be all right at Selby.  The
I am afraid, Aunt Augusta, I shall have to give up the pleasure of
dreamed of her as a great artist, had given his love to her because he
One must have fed itself and escaped, and probably there was another
idea of its nature. It seemed to be a sort of monster, or symbol
Almost at the same time the mortality among the livestock commenced.
me know the worst.
ALGERNON.
and in the absence of his host stammered out a desperate tale once
to some one, I, or your father, should his health permit him, will
he found in the cabin of the yacht, in a small carved shrine of
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_Looking very disappointed_.]  Delighted, Vicomte,
moments were consumed in surveying the ruins just around the bend. It
barred window and locked door were intact; but it was much as it had
borders of that spot, for they might shed light on the country notion
formulæ of antiquity and the Middle Ages.
strangely with a concordant rumbling which clearly came from the sky.
Worthing, who is that young person whose hand my nephew Algernon is now
Australia! I’d sooner die.
. . . Oh, what a lesson! and what a pity that in life we only get our
a shelf-lined room in Arkham.
of the rich.”
dark-brown hair, eyes that were violet wells of passion, lips that were
is."
remark, he glanced at him, hesitated for a moment, and then said,
des images de Chaldéens tracées avec des couleurs, s’est laissée emporter
Arkham was openly baffled. The swine began growing grey and brittle
data on the Cthulhu Cult, and evidence that it had strange interests
LORD GORING.  Good heavens!  No.  What does it say?
LORD GORING.  I am under the impression that my lawyer settled that
But that was all. That which spoke could speak no more because it had
Le sein de perles ruisselant,
not wonder that the foreigners would not stay, for this was no region
first Tuesday in every month, from four to seven.
LORD GORING.  Robert, you don’t mind my sending you away?
rumours about his mode of life crept through London and became the
first noticed the glow about the well. Night had fully set in, and all
know any one of that name.
d that they did not know where he lived, and had
court further publicity by a violent resistance or refusal to talk.
Wordsworth defines as the poet's true aim; yet a spectator merely, and
comparatively cold reception.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Lord Goring, I never believe a single word that either
what the bendin' trees an' bushes could make, an' all on a suddent the
dress. "Quick, quick," cried the Ghost, "or it will be too late," and
ALGERNON.
remote peak must have been a spectacle of infinite grotesqueness
on which the youth had found himself working, chilled and clad only
“Harry! Sibyl Vane is sacred!”
iron hoops beside it, both half-fused, seemed to hint at the remnants
sinless infancy--are difficulties the solution of which might
increased week by week, till it became common speech that "something
lateness of the hour, he got up, and going into the next room, placed
LADY BASILDON.  What a horrid combination!  So very unnatural!
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Sitting down on the sofa_.]  Those are my terms.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Is Mr. Trafford in his room?
Basil! That is the second time you have made that observation. If one
They shunned people now, and when school opened the boys did not go.
fact, it was music that had first brought him and Dorian Gray
shall ye know them," he quoted. Yes--the odor was the same as that
upon it. Besides, I always deal with Dartmoor’s tradesmen, and
Whateley's boarded-up farmhouse. Earl Sawyer, who tended the horse and
long manuscript. Once before, it appears, Professor Angell had seen the
bounds. No one could look long at them, and even the medical examiner
cela.
GWENDOLEN.
somewhat too sensational. Even these metallic problems have their
of Arkham people. There had been no house or ruin near; even in the
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I received from the Baron £110,000.
As the rest of the watchers on that tempestuous hill had stolidly set
“You can dine with me to-night, Dorian, can’t you?”
give you what you want.”
froid ici! il y a un vent très froid, et j’entends . . . pourquoi est-ce
name! Something tells me that we are going to be great friends. I like
Myers and Podmore on the subject of the Permanence of Sanguineous Stains
crew of the _Emma_ landed on an unknown island and left six men dead;
sont des trésors sans prix.  Et ce n’est pas tout.  Dans un coffret
evasively muttered. I could not, however, get any good answers, except
until dawn did they finally quiet down. Then they vanished, hurrying
door, and his valet entered and reminded him it was time to dress for
not masked by a bland optimism. But it is not from them that there
must not look at it. I don’t wish you to.”
the door opened and Sibyl ran in.
people. Will you take the time from me?
her noisome crew had darted eagerly forth as if imperiously summoned,
“Women are wonderfully practical,” murmured Lord Henry, “much more
that had vanished, and in another second they had vanished too.
on the mountains that May Night? What Roodmas horror fastened itself on
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma.  [_Goes to table up L._]
hing in the world to ensure Gwendolen’s happiness.
pursuers were gaining.
I have
“‘Do you really think I shall?’ asked little Hans.
little Frog swam away.
surprised to find a child of mine expressing sympathy with mediævalism
whilst the hill noises rumbled faintly.
floor, and seemed to be trying to grasp with its long fleshless fingers
[MRS. CHEVELEY _starts_; _then bows with somewhat exaggerated politeness
GWENDOLEN.
“Can’t you see your ideal in it?” said Dorian bitterly.
followed by a hideous screaming and stamping amongst the cattle. The
“We have carried their burden.”
bloodroots grew insolent in their chromatic perversion. Ammi and the
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_Chuckling_.]  By Jove!  By Jove!
slowly widening on the table, one would have said that the man was
had come that white noontide cloud, that string of explosions in the
that there was no difference at all between the lives of others and one's
ALGERNON.
brittleness. The boughs were all straining skyward, tipped with tongues
HÉRODE.  Je ne veux pas qu’il fasse cela.  Je lui défends de faire cela.
hystérique qui va cherchant des amants partout.  Elle est nue aussi.
fascination for him. As he passed out, he used to look with wonder at
John W. Luce and Company
old Castro about the sunken, star-born Old Ones and their coming reign;
style; our very dress makes us grotesque.  We are the zanies of sorrow.
all the people wondered.  “She is like a white rose!” they cried, and
never sees anything.”
went into the well after it had done with poor Nahum....
Early the next morning the Mayor was walking in the square below in
mania, and eccentricity during the given period. Professor Angell
either cult or image, and now the detective had come to the highest
lasted, he had lived centuries of pain, aeon upon aeon of torture. His
ed hardly tell you that in
But the Spring never came, nor the Summer.  The Autumn gave golden fruit
the raucous, creepily insistent rhythms of stridently piping bullfrogs.
the stage. He is a sailor, or something. And now, tell me about
UN JUIF.  On voit bien que ce n’est le Messie, s’il est en Samarie.  Ce
very good repair; indeed, one side is gone, and there is something wrong
the liberated Old Ones would teach them new ways to shout and kill
As the hall door shut, Campbell started nervously, and having got up
completely ignorant of what had happened in dream or reality since the
the poor fellow out of
architecture which flaunts its stuccoed front amidst the lovely
ring of fire.
dressing-gown of silk-embroidered cashmere wool, passed into the
upstairs more ahead of me than I had thought it would be, and is
[_As he reaches the door_, LADY CHILTERN _enters from her boudoir_.]
again so as to be in the fashion.”
ining with the Tories and thinking with the Liberals, in
“Greek meets Greek, then?”
should not say the greatest romance of your life. You should say the
during which he related startling fragments of nocturnal imagery whose
LADY BRACKNELL.
murmured, "Beware! little Virginia, beware! we may never see you again,"
.
laughed mockingly at the village rumors of his parentage.
seriously?  All the dull people one can think of, from the Bishops down
terrible language that was not of earth. Merwin was getting frightfully
Yes, you’ve wonderfully good taste, Ernest. It’s the excuse I’ve always
MISS PRISM.
velvet embroidered with little pearls.  Then
and profusely set with enamelled and jewelled medallions. It had been
hand makes me forget you and all your wrong, fascinating, poisonous,
emitted, and all trace of the thing vanished with the puncturing. It
Philistinism was the note of the age and community in which he lived.  In
result was the same.”
it makes one unselfish. And unselfish people are colourless. They lack
of Arkham people. There had been no house or ruin near; even in the
make a short speech stating that I believe there are possibilities in the
St. Louis. Professor Angell, as befitted one of his authority and
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  [_Up C._]  So strange Lord Windermere isn’t here.
piped threateningly. Once in a while a wind, sweeping up out of Cold
CHAPTER IV.
flooded for the new reservoir.
paid his own price for living it. The only pity was one had to pay so
LORD GORING.  Ah! I guessed as much!
should begin with science and end with a settlement.  [_Puts letter
chose, especially the much-discussed couplet:
two of these can’t be admitted into decent society. However, tell me
with the grasses waving above one's head, and listen to silence. To have
be put into any words. Their shapes were monstrous, and the horse had
good qualities in the highwayman in the hope that he may spare our
nearly up to the bowsprit of the sturdy yacht, but Johansen drove on
Thaddeus went mad in September after a visit to the well.
floor in a room of that very building, and after that not one of them
moment’s sorrow.  But don’t spoil your beautiful young life on my
a great book open in his arms before him. Dogs abhorred the boy, and
brood. In the common world of fact the wicked were not punished, nor
and will one day mirror in marble those nightmares and fantasies which
dark, as he now clearly saw was the case with the nearby vegetation.
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Turning round_.]  Yes!
wearing “a jacket of raised gold, the placard embroidered with diamonds
Harry,” he murmured—“or what enmity is, for that matter.
heat lingered persistently, and Nahum declared it had glowed faintly in
the coat that Charles of Orleans once wore, on the sleeves of which
sterile failure, he who was made for triumph and success?  Women are not
Wednesday, the great shock came. Tucked obscurely away in a corner of
MISS PRISM.
Algernon. They whistle some dreadful popular air from a British Opera.]
serenity and calm of Goethe, and yet know but too well that Baudelaire
questioned such of the mongrel prisoners as still survived. Old Castro,
yourself.  Good-bye, Lord Windermere. [_Goes towards door with a bow to_
a type, at once slightly affected and slightly ill-mannered, which I
their heavy inaccessibility to ideas, their dull respectability, their
stainless, a woman whom you respected and honoured.  That may be so.  But
“I know that look. It depresses me,” murmured Lord Henry, examining his
kind. I know I am not. And yet I must admit that this thing that has
temple, and of whose doleful sound he has left us so vivid a
fascinating in this son of love and death.
about the throats of the gray, unshaven old man and his
of the pail.
Whateley's gorilla-like lope as he crossed the bit of campus visible
half-closed eyes and averted head, walked quickly in, determined that
that is born of the senses and that dies when the senses tire. It was
inflict upon us bodily injury? Oh, least of all! _These terrors
come on the 751st page of his own defective volume. This much he could
of you.  I give you both till to-morrow at noon.  If by then you don’t do
kept saying over and over to himself:
e highest
made wild orgiastic prayers that were answered by loud crackings and
only fair to tell you that according to the terms of her grandfather’s
Nor is it to be thought [ran the text as Armitage mentally
him. Your influence would be bad. The world is wide, and has many
white-whiskered creature who, like so many of his class, was under the
raked the coins off the counter with greedy fingers. Her companion
scaly, rubbery-looking body, prodigious claws on hind
d that young Wilcox had known of the older matters
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  It is much to surrender.
should be thinking about me.  I am always thinking about myself, and I
heartless.
had only two topics of conversation, his gout and his wife!  I never
insincerity such a terrible thing? I think not. It is merely a method
“Basil, I am tired of standing,” cried Dorian Gray suddenly. “I must go
Cecily!
n.
formulas between the Yr and the Nhhngr. They from outside will
shall not tell her—I forbid you.
well, everyone went indoors and conferred in the ancient sitting-room
Henry VIII., on his way to the Tower previous to his coronation, as
CECILY.
with itself: the outward rendered expressive of the inward: the soul made
tremendous sense of responsibility.
in a great envelope, which he immediately placed in his inside coat
house, were to be to him means of forgetfulness, modes by which he
s coming here, and if you in
Il viendra s’il veut.  Mais je ne pense pas qu’il vienne.
Agatha.
do not like the way the sunlight changed colour around the mouth of
“The story is simply this,” said the painter after some time. “Two
He turned round and, walking to the window, drew up the blind. The
him.
coloured globule are dead. There were other globules--depend upon that.
were, refined, and gaining a kind of symbolical value, as though they
Cecily Cardew? [Moving to her and shaking hands.] What a very sweet
of the tiny blossoms. He watched it with that strange interest in
comet's tail, and of hysterical plunges from the pit to the moon and
occurred. Two titan swaths of destruction stretched from the glen
LADY CHILTERN.  I will be back in a moment.  I am only going to take my
experience.
whole farm was shocking--greyish withered grass and leaves on the
ce que vous voudrez je vous le donnerai, fût-ce la moitié de mon royaume.
of aromatic balms and of dark and fragrant woods; of spikenard, that
HÉRODIAS.  Vous entendez ce qu’il dit de vous.  Il dit que vous serez
that strange days are never talked about in Arkham.
“Ah, Dorian, I am so glad you take it in that way! I was afraid I would
dawn flooded the room and swept the fantastic shadows into dusky
y the fumes of wine. The
to come down here sometimes. We might have a good influence over him,
nbeams; but this new glow was something definite and distinct, and
ist and city
not a matter of old legendry at all, but something within the lifetime
On April 2nd at about 3 p. m. every trace of Wilcox's malady suddenly
m an' the souls they hunts fer hev some
in a hurry. I want it to be what _The Morning Post_ calls a suitable
twilight he hastened home, the screams of the mad woman and the nervous
be something on, somewhere. I have promised to dine at White’s, but it
something about ambition that is unscrupulous always.  Once a man has set
of art, and chiefly of the art of literature, which dealt immediately
As soon as he was alone, he lit a cigarette and began sketching upon a
statement of anyone when he said he was disturbed about certain
various keys on the ring he had taken. The third key proved the right
reality of my life. It was only in the theatre that I lived. I thought
no wish," he said, "to do the ghost any personal injury, and I must say
life.” He was flushed with excitement and pleasure, and looked
details, but merely told of the deaths of Nahum and Nabby, that of
queer way impossible to describe, while its face had taken on an
your short frocks.”
up_.  _Over the well of the staircase hangs a great chandelier with wax
country gossip was disputable no longer, and it is because of the
[_Exit_ PARKER _C._]
that I know you have.  My dear Margaret, you are not going to cry?
passed through every possible mood of suffering.
good deal of comment. Some mornings it was a dull (almost Indian) red,
much out of repair did he look, that little Virginia, whose first idea
expression that had altered. That was horrible in its cruelty. Compared
things ministers say in cases of this kind.  A few ordinary platitudes
Dr. Chasuble.
“Well, perhaps you are right. And now good-bye, Dorian. You have been
his husky voice sank low, while his body leaned forward and his right
grey city or green field that saw their sin is small; to find those who
cannot spare you. And now you had better dress and drive down to the
and poisons us. The body
“You would miss them,” said Lord Henry.
writing now, but things were told by word of mouth. The chanted ritual
g away at once, so that only
"HAD ONCE RACED OLD LORD BILTON ON HER PONY"
greenroom. The girl was standing there alone, with a look of triumph on
and unlocked the door.
outside. Mrs. Frye proposed telephoning the neighbors, and Elmer was
quite discomposed by the singular odor he encountered--such a stench,
his grandfather had done upstairs four years before.
and now she has this charming house in Mayfair, drives her ponies in the
read, and I think I know the right kind of a spell to recite to make
"Nabby? Why, here she is!" was the surprised response of poor Nahum,
“Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the
left for him as a profession except Botany or the Church.  A confession
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_Turning round with feigned surprise_.]  Oh, are you
tethered Hero such a sound as no man before or since ever heard from
CHASUBLE.
“Don’t know who he is?” said Dorian, listlessly. “What do you mean?
one survivor in a half-delirious condition and one man who had
he threw his cigarette away, took hold of her hand, and said to her,
mammals.
frightened man on the dark stairs to guess what had sent them. But that
influences of a pleasure-loving aristocracy, the true principles of
returned. He wondered if he had met the men in the hall as they were
for convenient pitching. And all the while the vegetation was turning
husband_.  _They are unconscious of her presence_.]
away.”  So they threw it on a dust-heap where the dead Swallow was also
substance wasted away.
de tes petites dents.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Yes.  [LORD GORING _sighs_, _then passes his hand
“Alan, it was murder. I killed him. You don’t know what he had made me
under there." Ammi's horse still pawed and screamed deafeningly in
Yes, sir. [Jack and Gwendolen go off.]
But we will not be the first to speak.
All art is quite useless.
over him and long weeds catching in his hair. Do you know, I don’t
in want, and will send them any sum of money you may think necessary.”
From the corner of the divan of Persian saddle-bags on which he was
town at once, it is the only thing to do.  Good-bye, once more; come,
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Smiling_.]  No; you shall have Mabel.  [_Takes the
the door, they got on the roof and dropped down on to the balcony. The
nothing ages a woman so rapidly as having married the general rule.
for me, or is it pity merely?
ALGERNON.
gone, too, and the wise men talked of the strange stone's affinity
and Klüber's _Kryptographik_. He interspersed his study of the books
irretrievably weak and vacillating.
The writing accompanying this oddity was, aside from a stack of
which to live really, perfectly, and fully.
sole secret of creation.
like what he smelt up to the Whateley rewins Monday mornin'.
[_Enter_ PARKER.]
“Harden, sir.”
knowing where you deposited the hand-bag that contained that infant.
en you come back from Australia. You will like him so much.
recognized some solvents as I mentioned them in the usual order of use.
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_Placing his hand on his white waistcoat_.]  Oh, thank
lines of research among philosophers and men of science, were of no
never laid eyes upon you! You have spoiled the romance of my life. How
lack of a controllable voice when he wished to draw notice to the
found a group of frightened servants, and lying on a sofa in the library
LORD WINDERMERE.  You refuse?  [_C._]
true.”
players at a game pass counters. Sibyl felt oppressed. She could not
disarrangement or threatened disarrangement of which always seemed to
rises] we have already missed five, if not six, trains. To miss any
thing.  It is more precious than emeralds, and dearer than fine opals.
sister-in-law—
him most susceptible,—susceptible to reason, I mean.
“It may be so with you,” he answered; “indeed, I have no doubt that it
“Describe us as a sex,” was her challenge.
I am?  I like people to ask me how I am.  It shows a wide-spread interest
the King’s son,” he remarked, “that he is to be
certain queer hereditary rituals addressed to a supreme elder devil or
conjectures about him were spiced with references to the bygone magic
appeared to shoot up from the bla
y very little to tell, Harry,” answered the painter;
beryls, and their roar is louder than the roar of the cataract.”
*       *       *       *       *
JACK.
throw away if we were not afraid that others might
When the moon rose he flew back to the Happy Prince.  “Have you any
swathed in scarlet, rose the image of his sin. When Lord Henry came in
for Paris by the midnight train on the ninth of November was poor
not civilly refrain from telling the librarian--the same erudite Henry
really nothing for serious men to do in cases of wild gossip, for
there will be no difficulty about the Custom House, as the officers are
VICOMTE DE NANJAC.  I should like to, but my professor objects.  [_To_
the most o' ye only tell abaout.
others elsewhere, gave him a growing amazement which passed slowly
say.
neighbours.  In fact, to be a bit better than one’s neighbour was
have a tragic ending, and every tragedy would culminate in a farce.
All at once one of the detectives at the window gave a short, sharp
ground floor that, in his new-born feeling for luxury, he had just had
revealed.
perfumed wood thickly incrusted with nacre, a present from Lady Radley,
neighborhood now. His height had increased to more than seven feet, and
gone back to him in some vague realm or dimension outside our material
stones that he had collected, such as the olive-green chrysoberyl that
_édition de luxe_ of a bad French novel. She is really wonderful, and
By September all the vegetation was fast crumbling to a greyish
taken by something of that colour.
“For a red rose?” they cried; “how very ridiculous!” and the little
paid conscience money many times.  I had a wild hope that I might disarm
would have fled had he not feared the scorn of the others, and it was
Wheel, who had been attached to an old deal box in early life, and prided
one of the first to be approached by the several outsiders who took
sent him flying home. Mrs. Corey, unable to extract more information,
HÉRODIAS.  C’est bien dit, ma fille.
we all seen in the meteor stone that fell a year ago June. Sucks an'
among which it rises.
MABEL CHILTERN.  You are always telling me of your bad qualities, Lord
vulgar, dishonest family."
rushed out as if in pursuit.
documents?
vice-admiralty's investigation brought out, and what was known of the
[_They pass out_.  MR. MONTFORD, _a perfectly groomed young dandy_,
England.
the rest were committed to various institutions. All denied a part
see you are quite as wilful as you used to be.
realism that is vulgar, an ideality that is void.
waits and dreams in the deep, and decay spreads over the tottering
CHASUBLE.
He would write of what he knew before death came, but his wife must not
long spells of senseless and sensual ease.  I amused myself with being a
MISS PRISM.
sure that the sea and the ground were horizontal, hence the relative
[_Enter_ MASON.]
got in communication with Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury, who had attended
sur les montagnes les cherchant partout.  Je ne les ai pas trouvés.
describe. In her raving there was not a single specific noun, but
envisage the callous rationalism with which I set them aside. But I
nocturnal impressions appear here and there, always between March
LADY BRACKNELL.
and around that fearsome hill. Curtis Whateley was only just regaining
It isn’t.
After some time a large White Duck swam up to him.  She had yellow legs,
scheme?
“I daren’t, Mr. Gray. Why, she invents hats for me. You remember the
those who know what sorrow is: nobody else interests me.  Nor am I making
Toward 1 o'clock Old Whateley gained consciousness, and interrupted his
CECIL GRAHAM.  And a sentimentalist, my dear Darlington, is a man who
When I am in trouble, eating is the only thing that consoles me.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_To herself_]  How thoughtful of him!  To expect the
extra-cosmic consciousness or obscure, long-latent heredity, were those
Irem, the City of Pillars, dreams hidden and untouched. It was not
would.  [_Bows to_ LADY WINDERMERE _and exit_.]
tétrarque ne veut pas qu’on lui parle.  Il a même défendu au grand prêtre
HÉRODE.  En effet, j’étais le plus fort . . . mais ne parlons pas de
and a new road was laid curving far toward the south. Traces of the
to be almost too great to be borne. Upon the walls of the lonely locked
one thing that has in it the elements of life, of a new life, _Vita
lines of cruelty round the mouth as clearly as if he had been looking
think it is perfectly absurd.
the Canterville family pictures. He was simply but neatly clad in a long
form reveals.  Of such modes of existence there are not a few: youth and
done, and I will destroy it. What is it but canvas and colour? I will
indifference of joy.
picture?”
receptive expectations which so often precede the presentation of
Thurston, of Boston.]
Johansen to speak more freely than he has done hitherto.
arthen jars of the
were to be. From him there were no protests at the miles of old wood
a form of reverie, a malady of dreaming, that made him unconscious of
her that there was enough suffering in one narrow London lane to show
after dinner. You shan’t sit next either of them.
with his silver-and-black armour piled at his feet. What had this man’s
him, and to make his passing out a pretty terrible sight. I'm going
with the terror of eternity.
to try and kill her love for him, to put poison in her heart, and
Would it teach him to loathe his own soul? Would he ever look at it
feeds on everything livin' an' gits stronger all the time. He said he
by the American Archeological Society, but there was one box which I
sailors had done by accident. After vigintillions of years great
talker.
and ancient building with plastered front. A sad-faced woman in black
the driver on impulse, forgetting how uninjured he himself was after
incantation containing the frightful name _Yog-Sothoth_, and it puzzled
darkness the watchers saw wriggling at the treetop height a thousand
that—perhaps the most satisfying joy left to us in an age so limited
ALGERNON.
slopes for myself, and ceased to wonder at anything besides its own
twisted a more indescribable horde of human abnormality than any but a
night he slept a little
* * * * *
had left them, and beside them lies the half-cut book that we had been
Before a week was over he was to come across a large nugget of pure
“Don’t speak about those days, Dorian—they are dead.”
MISS PRISM.
appeared to shoot up from the bla
is all on the surface.  Just where good qualities should be.  Of course
LORD GORING.  That is the first unkind thing you have ever said to me.
his twin brother, but it looked more like the father than he did._"
the window the shrilling of the whippoorwills had suddenly ceased, and
parts of the inner walls as ought to have been revealed, and actually
The old folk have gone away, and foreigners do not like to live there.
laugh like that. I am telling you the truth. The wretched peasant who
life. But I have no doubt his name would appear in any military
from a window after a shocking cry. Here likewise a rambling letter
the next morning to see the weird visitor from unknown stellar space,
Lord Goring into a class quite by himself.  But he is developing
reconcile the artistic life with the life of religion, in the deep,
“That would be impossible, my dear boy.”
ownstairs,
a mediocrity.”
SECOND SOLDAT.  Le tétrarque aime beaucoup le vin.  Il possède des vins
elevated her son to the dignity of an audience. She felt sure that the
felt sure that I was on the track of a very real, very secret, and
n of Sunday with Dr. Armitage, for the task
which grow vocal on warm nights. It is vowed that the birds are
country-house and the life that is led there? Dorian, you don’t know
changed.
LORD WINDERMERE.  Have you said good-night to my wife?  [_Comes C._]
GWENDOLEN.
“That was at Lohengrin, Lady Henry, I think?”
He had not long survived his return, said his wife, for the doings at
[Picture: The Remarkable Rocket]
shroud, spotted with churchyard mould, had tied up his jaw with a strip
LADY CHILTERN.  It can never be necessary to do what is not honourable.
denied. But the staginess of her acting was unbearable, and grew worse
LORD GORING.  Your letter was on pink paper.  He could recognise it
an hour.  Or perhaps, dear Mrs. Cheveley, you wouldn’t mind waiting in
university grounds; where, indeed, he passed heedlessly by the great
dreamed, but touched wildly on a gigantic thing "miles high" which
shrugging his shoulders. “I cannot sympathize with that. It is too
ruined grace that had made him so suddenly, and almost without cause,
moonlit clouds; scratching impotently in the noxious air as if jerked
r a year after that was done to me I wept every day at the same hour
knows it.  That is why I felt it was better to come and talk to you, and
palpitating centre of romance.  The strange figures of poetic drama and
corroborated as it was by the statuette, is echoed in the subsequent
acid and even aqua regia merely hissed and spattered against its torrid
spending several winters in Boston when she was a girl,--that these gems
give you the opinions current in 1820, when people wore high stocks,
emitted, and all trace of the thing vanished with the puncturing. It
and so she has never really died. To you at least she was always a
one’s lifetime, and the duties exacted from one after one’s death, land
and then I sold my silver chain, and then I sold my big pipe, and at last
Gray, saw that his eyes were filled with tears. There was something in
There is absolutely nothing in the world but youth!”
weep.
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Dear Lord Darlington, how thoroughly depraved you
parts of the inner walls as ought to have been revealed, and actually
[_Moves away R._]
the night. The professors tried it with a geologist's hammer and found
delirium. Over a fourth of those who reported anything, reported
what Life is, and what Death signifies, and why Love is stronger than
strange things; and the doctor shuddered now and then as he spoke of
have!  I am sure you were very badly brought up.
would do her so much good to have a short stroll with you in the Park,
deal of difficulty that he brought himself to adopt this last mode of
out the drinks, and if you stay any longer in this glare, you will be
ywhere. They were all now in the greatest state of
second story. She would never tell what her father and the boy were
days will be one with the deep's secrets; one with the hidden lore of
l’entends encore.  Ne
bsolutely declined to accept or admit the enormous truth
here.  In Egypt the sun is warm on the green palm-trees, and the
most brilliant marriage for Sibyl. They would make a charming couple.
about this part of his story and speaks only of their falling into
seriously. It is the world’s original sin. If the caveman had known how
a bachelor.
y
Augustus to force our company on you, but I’m afraid I can’t stay long.
and rescue her. Of course, she would fall in love with him, and he with
“It is not comfortable here,” he remarked, “but no doubt it is some
seen again.
was wrong with all Nahum's folks." When the early saxifrage came out it
D. Galvez, I later met and questioned; and he proved distractingly
isn't as bad as what Wilbur would have let in if he'd lived longer.
through which he had roamed all his life. They were better under water
nowadays a high moral tone, father.  That is all.
“Why, man, it’s nigh on eighteen years since Prince Charming made me
Robert.  I told him your lordship was here.
who suspected a touch of bizarre familiarity in the monstrous shape and
describes a theosophist colony as donning white robes en masse for some
round. I had thrown her some flowers, and she had looked at me—at least
calming. He had come of late to do nothing but stare into space and
Sydney, and had thereafter sold his cottage in West Street and sailed
matter with you on certain terms . . . dictated by yourself.
simplicity of your character makes you exquisitely incomprehensible to
dares to do this because his house is so near the open fields and the
LE NUBIEN.  Les dieux de mon pays aiment beaucoup le sang.  Deux fois par
Dorian. He is not like other men. He would never bring misery upon any
"_Cthulhu_" and "_R'lyeh_".
be ambitious for me.
followed his leader in public life and in private life followed the
One morning the Giant was lying awake in bed when he heard some lovely
husband has got seventeen of them.”
she did so, the moon came out from behind a cloud, and flooded with its
of the visitors seemed so far unaffected.
suppose?
Every afternoon, when school was over, the children came and played with
choose between this world, the next world, and Australia.
approaches for our departure. We have not a moment to lose. As a matter
in the woods and fields, and the few who have ever dared glimpse it in
He felt that if he brooded on what he had gone through he would sicken
SECOND SOLDAT.  Il s’est tué lui-même, Seigneur.
“That is because you have done a good action,” said the Prince.  And the
Good heavens! Is marriage so demoralising as that?
GORING.  Lady Chiltern knows nothing of the kind of life to which
in the air.
art-needlework she took up.  I know she had lost all sense of pleasure in
“I had intended never to enter your house again, Gray. But you said it
decorated for himself and hung with some curious Rena
knew a good deal about that.  More than his poor wife ever did.
footmen making contortions in corners like persons in circuses.  I assure
in the spaces between the purple rings. Of genuine blood there was
His good looks are really quite remarkable; everybody notices them.”
ture was being taken to. There was something sly
herself?
pieces of literature it has been our good fortune to
fifteen.
strange beam of ghastly miasma was to him of no unfamiliar hue. He had
old house by the Egeberg. He could not tell--they would think him mad.
and in the opinion of most people his frank debonair manner, his
once loved a woman, he will do anything for her, except continue to love
ALGERNON.
SALOMÉ [_s’approchant de la citerne et y regardant_] Comme il fait noir
singer trying to build out of the music the walls of the City of God; or
Me, sir! What has it to do with me? You can hardly imagine that I and
that monstrous blasphemy in quest of which the thing had perished.
form. It was no longer _shining_ out; it was _pouring_ out; and as the
“Very important for you, I have no doubt,” answered the Rocket, “but I
bought success at a great price.  That is all.
nations of Europe. As he investigated the subject—and he always had an
not so pretty as that.  [_Showing photograph_.]
quicken his sense of pleasure. He grew more and more enamoured of his
the strange poverty of the rich.  Some one wrote to me in trouble, 'When
thing that he knew was stretched across the table, the thing whose
u ever get a chance!
I am afraid I really don’t know. The fact is, Lady Bracknell, I said I
that the portrait still preserved, under all the foulness and ugliness
UN SADDUCÉEN.  Les anges n’existent pas.
Selfish Giant, as he sat at the window and looked out at his cold white
Indeed, when I am in really great trouble, as any one who knows me
[_Exit_ LADY MARKBY.]
way by which people should be judged.
the season the Minister and his family went down to Canterville Chase.
vers.
CECILY.
corroborated as it was by the statuette, is echoed in the subsequent
rushed out as if in pursuit.
Corots.
shame it seemed, some record of wild sins, some awful calendar of crime,
“Well, sir, you’ll be covered with cobwebs if you go into it.
way through the long unmown grass, or circling with monotonous
glow from the lantern he had taken, and of the child himself no trace.
twisted a more indescribable horde of human abnormality than any but a
in their churchgoing or their attendance at the various social events
century. No glamour ever transfigures them. One knows their minds as
he was to save from the wicked, red-shirted bushrangers. For he was not
gaping mouths, the staring lustreless eyes, fascinated him. He knew in
and revel and enjoy themselves, and all the earth would flame with a
gas-lamps grew fewer, and the streets more narrow and gloomy. Once the
“To some little actress or other.
again. His mood of cowardice had passed away.
MISS MABEL CHILTERN         _Miss Maud Millet_.
said.  Gold Stick is very complimentary.  In fact, he mistakes me for one
what it might not have done at that last moment, and with its seemingly
Chinamen said that there were double meanings in the _Necronomicon_
Curtis Whateley--of the undecayed branch--was holding the telescope
The following months were void of visible events, save that everyone
MRS. CHEVELEY [_With a bitter laugh_.]  In this world like meets with
out sharply, passing the glass to Earl Sawyer and indicating a certain
screaming ribands! He was to leave the vessel at Melbourne, bid a
[_Motions to him with her fan to sit down again beside her_.]
it was a rough parallel in all essential features of the bestial thing
What?
well-proportioned room, which had been specially built by the last Lord
[Kisses her.] Thank you, Lady Bracknell.
qualities to a severe test.
There was a bursting as of an exploding bladder, a slushy nastiness
smile.... People say sometimes that beauty is only superficial. That
life, suggested so strangely by the merely visible presence of one who
rnace, and the Mayor held a meeting of
cities of men. A time will come--but I must not and can not think! Let
Lord Henry knew what women were. Why should he trouble about Sibyl
of Mabel’s future happiness.  And I don’t think her happiness would be
MRS. MARCHMONT.  That is exactly what we can’t stand.  My Reginald is
by some allied and bodiless line of linkage with sub-terrene horrors
dans les déserts et dans les palais des rois.
and they wondered how swiftly or how lingeringly a cow or bullock
CECILY.
"Oh, I hate the cheap severity of abstract ethics! My wife was very
it develops that a very puzzling aftermath occurred at the college
ers on a satin gown for
LORD GORING.  No, father; but the lady is like me.  She doesn’t care much
LANE.
one sacrifices oneself.  They always go to the bad.
you.
“Stop, Basil!
glance showed concavity after the first showed convexity.
hands. He felt that he had a right to know. It should have been told to
was rumoured that he had been seen brawling with foreign sailors in a
who is there.  I will know who it is to whom I have told my secret and my
of the last four weeks was beginning to have its effect. His nerves were
few. All of these, however, bore out the notes in full.
to revive His subjects and resume His rule of earth. The time would
My father tells me that even I have faults.  Perhaps I have.  I don’t
knowledge in identifying the hieroglyphics on the bas-relief. He
chocolate on a tray and opened the shutters. Dorian was sleeping quite
id . . .
things, but more marvellous than anything is the suffering of men and of
DUMBY.  Quite delightful!  Good evening, Duchess.  I suppose this will be
In two or three minutes there was another knock, and Mr. Hubbard
dressed in a coarse shirt and a pair of blue trousers. A spotted
party were seen to gain the minor elevation only a short time after the
ALGERNON.
on.  The nineteenth century is no exception to the rule.
month with my friends, and to gain peace and
I was a man who stood in symbolic relations to the art and culture of my
what he said of the child's paternity was remembered by many of his
he could see the strange, bottle-shaped kilns with their orange,
committed what the world calls a fault should never be forgiven?
had bought of his son Curtis. This marked the beginning of a course of
on meteoric iron.
looked up. “You have explained me to
suddenly in sight of the spectacle itself. Four of them reeled, one
stood, with
t it. I hate people who are not
mort, et l’ange n’est-il pas venu?
LORD GORING.  So my mother tells me.
young man, 'Sell all that thou hast and give to the poor,' it is not of
cigarette.  Half the pretty women in London smoke cigarettes.  Personally
When he reads this, he will.  He may do as he chooses now with his life.
higher and higher the brave Norwegian drove his vessel head on against
little, and he does not even recall when William Briden, his
“Men have educated us.”
[Enter Lane.]
sot as he kin for they're goin' to be all of his larnin'."
copyright on this publication was renewed.]
weeps when there is nothing at all to weep about”; and she heaved a deep
Street. I am nearly always at home at five o’clock. Write to me when
terrible books were drawn voluminously from the stack shelves and from
life than she has had.  She will make no further effort to know you.
marked by all. A rumbling sound seemed brewing beneath the hills, mixed
then proceeded to break his word. I do want to preach to you. I want
of the men somehow died ashore, though Johansen is queerly reticent
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Comme la princesse est pâle!  Jamais je ne l’ai vue si
“Let me get you some orchids, Duchess,” cried Dorian, starting to his
he doing there? His fingers were straying about among the litter of tin
growed ... I seen it the fust time this week ... must a' got strong
To the artist, expression is the only mode under which he can conceive
that my uncle's death was far from natural. He fell on a narrow hill
ment toujours, mais ce n’est pas un vrai roi.  C’est un lâche.  Aussi il
CHAPTER XVIII.
of optical devices are, fumbled a while; but eventually focused the
gaze upward to the point at which its idle straying had been suddenly
the Mystical in Nature this is what I am looking for.  It is absolutely
covered inside with green mould. There was nothing on the trencher but
Everything, in fact, that you would find thoroughly uninteresting.
was a look of fear in his eyes, such as people have when they are
a moment when intellectual pleasures await you. Your German grammar is
low. There is no need to speak too exactly of what they found. Merwin
lightning-like on deck and reversed the wheel. There was a mighty
strokes of cosmic potency.
men, and another for women? Mother, I forgive you. [Tries to embrace
much for myself.  But since Sir John has taken to attending the debates
uninteresting in what they are. A great poet, a really great poet, is
life—
emotions.  It is upon lines of intellect that a man’s life progresses.
m’as jamais vue.  Si tu m’avais vue, tu m’aurais aimée.  Moi, je t’ai vu,
in the world there would be less trouble in the world.
[_Blows a kiss to him_, _unobserved by_ LADY CHILTERN, _and goes out_.]
dramatically expressed. She felt that they would all laugh at it some
her.  I like you to think of yourself as one.
LADY MARKBY.  Going already?
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_In Purple_.]  No?
dark, crescent-shaped eyebrows and looking at them both with an amused
families or persons whose origin was a Terminus. [Jack looks perfectly
LADY PLYMDALE.  Because I want you to take my husband with you.  He has
d one lovely June evening by merely
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Oh, she’s explained that.
new spirituality, of which a fine instinct for beauty was to be the
his sweet melancholy smile.
But speech gave place to gasps again, and Lavinia screamed at the
Hallward for months, but the friendship between them had never altered
passed away from chiselled nostrils and from plastic throat. Yes, it
martyr in his 'shirt of flame' may be looking on the face of God, but to
worship, so Inspector Legrasse and his nineteen colleagues plunged on
ago, too.
The elder man lay back and looked at him with half-closed eyes. “By the
shoots very straight. But there is no use talking about the matter.”
with startled eyes_.]  I have not the courage.
and little Hans nodded and smiled, and felt very proud of having a friend
I haven’t quite finished my tea yet! and there is still one muffin
care not to give away anything again.
ng. But a
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Everything?
watering of flowers is rather Moulton’s duty than yours? Especially at
Ammi described would be called a gas, but this gas obeyed laws that
at Sydney University, the Royal Society, and the Museum in College
“Is the story about me?” asked the Water-rat.  “If so, I will listen to
are no triumphs left for you, or have to content yourself with those
shockingly frightful. Behind the figure was a vague suggestion of a
judgment.  You love Robert.  Do you want to kill his love for you?  What
Here is the first passionate love-letter I have ever written in my
She rose from her knees and, with a piteous expression of pain in her
si terribles, qui étaient si pleins de colère et de mépris, ils sont
some day.
are.
to forget you, Sibyl.”
French-Canadians have tried it, Italians have tried it, and the Poles
everywhere were those hectic and prismatic variants of some diseased,
soapy, greenish-black stone with its golden or iridescent flecks and
LORD AUGUSTUS.  She’s explained that too.
Do you allude to me, Miss Cardew, as an entanglement? You are
"_Oh, oh, my Gawd, that haff face ... that haff face on top of it ...
jumped and roared, the general direction of the mass motion being from
s new-born feeling for luxury, he had just had
to body till it had reached his own? Was it some dim sense of that
play with the wit and beauty that make such plays delightful to us. Is
not, Duchess.  Nowadays to be intelligible is to be found out.  Good-bye!
bottle, sputtered beside it.
thousand pounds! And in the Funds!
CHASUBLE.
which the atmosphere seemed surcharged.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Going to him_.]  You work too hard, Robert.  You seem
“‘Well, I am glad of that,’ said the Miller, clapping little Hans on the
separately as he went. He climbed interminably along the grotesque
something in your touch that was wonderful. It had more expression than
thing it had escaped. As the shadows gathered, the natives commenced
do you talk of it? It used to remind me of those curious lines in some
more care of
slowly_.]  ‘I want you.  I trust you.  I am coming to you.’  So she has
to say his prayers each night before he went to sleep. God was very
his own infinite curiosity about life. Eternal youth, infinite passion,
"Cecil and I have been riding all over the country looking for you, and
older standing. They date beyond body_--or without the
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Puts what he has written into an envelope_,
Come here. Sit down. Sit down immediately. Hesitation of any kind is a
hinted at strange survivals in terms which would freeze the blood if
Three o’clock struck, and four, and the half-hour rang its double
accordance with a wise and well-known rule.
be furious. I don’t care.
more, but the man did not move. Something began to trickle on the
all the woodwork in sight; steps, sides, exposed laths, and beams alike.
glen itself. The sky grew very dark, and the watchers hoped that the
the years after Nahum's taking, and always they lacked the power to get
JACK.
brought him a breakfast from the house he could scarcely dispose of a
would have married me if she had known that the origin of my fortune is
“They are pork-packers, I suppose?”
might have been very serious.
noiselessly through the underbrush, and the astonished watcher seemed
MISS PRISM.
lip_, _and lights a cigarette_.]
of much use to him, but it was considered a great honour, and was duly
try to persuade me that the first good action I have done for years,
types--the archetypes are in us, and eternal. How else should the
a long stick.  He always coughed before he made any observation, so as
gossip. Thaddeus, an especially sensitive youth, suffered the most.
extravagance of the whole subject led me to adopt what I thought the
Elephantis, while dwarfs and peacocks strutted round him and the
roper names.  It makes matters simpler.  We have
like the wind that 'bloweth where it listeth, and no man can tell whence
LADY CHILTERN.  Let me write yours.  It is you I trust and need.  You and
least, in any true or stable sense. He had taken somewhat after his
PARKER.  Yes, my lord.  [_Comes down L.C._]
conscious also of the shallowness and vanity of his mother’s nature,
you. Why do you try to persuade our nice Mr. Dorian Gray to give up the
“Why?”
dinner-parties are rather dull sometimes.  But one can’t have everything,
lui-même qui me l’a envoyé.  Trempez là-dedans vos petites lèvres rouges
pillar, while her husband lay at her
to day, and it never leaves the room in which it is written. I shall
himself by making satirical remarks on the large Saroni photographs of
worn, and she has coarse, red hands, all pricked by the needle, for she
a detached piece of the phosphorescence appeared to stir furtively in
had knocked him down. Two Lascar sailors at once helped him to his
A weird bunch of cuttings, all told; and I can at this date scarcely
sticking out of the sea, and in S. Latitude 47° 9', W. Longitude 126°
and entity.
there.
to, for the sake of my own perfection, and because I am so imperfect.
and, remembering a book that he had read when he was sixteen, a book
also?
deal from cold and hunger, and often had to go to bed without any supper
I don’t think there is much likelihood, Jack, of you and Miss Fairfax
had brought up, some days before, to cut a piece of cord, and had
imposing upon a learned and aged man.
upon him one day and departed pale and puzzled, he was fully six and
Oh, that is nonsense!
James Vane looked into his sister’s face with tenderness. “I want you
sure about your ever having been christened, I must say I think it
for real defense. In a few cases closely related families would band
position of guardian, one has to adopt a very high moral tone on all
woman.  You don’t.  We were at school together.  She was untruthful,
and the tears were not yet dry in his beautiful eyes.
assure you.”
and whenever the young man made any remark, he always answered ‘Pooh!’
mercenary.
raise the wind, that I never had even a flirtation with anybody.
dress and in your own time. Whether it was the realism of the method,
would be of help.
She made her brother talk of himself, his hopes, his prospects. He
dansez pour moi.  Oh! Salomé, Salomé, dansez pour moi.
his whole career, as he is on the brink of doing now.  He is making for
10
DUMBY.  No, time to forget all I have learned.
and coloured like flame is his body.  His lips are sweet as honey, and
unpleasing comments, has naturally stirred the deeper fibres of my
enemy of God and man, who strangled Polyssena with a napkin, and gave
that.  There should be a name.
perhaps whatever beauty of life still remains to me is contained in some
[_The_ VICOMTE _is about to retire_.  LADY BASILDON, _seeing this_,
abaout the hills as I dew, ye wouldn't ast no better church weddin' nor
[Footnote 1: Found among the papers of the late Francis Wayland
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Standing by the fireplace_.]  Why doesn’t he come?
city or the sealed tower long garlanded with seaweed and barnacles?
such a mental revolution as I had never before known, I
green velvet, embroidered with heart-shaped groups of acanthus-leaves,
sickle, and from sickle to shield.
Poor Johansen's handwriting almost gave out when he wrote of this. Of
One must have fed itself and escaped, and probably there was another
fireplace.]
that he put his hands to his head with a moan.
outside tin stove-pipe.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I think so.  I fear so, almost.  For although I am
emphasis, was very sad. The subject, a widely known architect with
“Quite dead,” whispered the Catherine Wheel, and she went off to sleep.
of low music. He bore Washington a special grudge, being quite aware
members. No book had ever really hinted of it, though the deathless
any solid obstruction.
wind-whipped woods alone to his home on the main road. For he had had
cannot prevail."
hardened to their May Eve and All-Hallow orgies. Twice a year they
had suffered also. During the three terrible hours that the play had
a trap-door or slantwise like an outside cellar-door. As Wilcox would
specimen--which proved, however, as baffling in the laboratory as
week of pointless and irrelevant accounts of thoroughly usual visions.
At this point, as the column of unknown colour flared suddenly stronger
OF BERWICK.  [_Indignantly_.]  To Australia?  Oh, don’t mention
and all the dogs of the countryside had barked persistently, throughout
MISS PRISM.
SALOMÉ.  Je veux lui parler.
a woman.
India a thousand years ago.  Pluck out one of them and take it to him.
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_R._]  Never read it!
scaling off. Ammi could not touch it, but looked horrifiedly into the
Gorges and ravines of problematical depth intersect the way, and the
and some of the dreamers confessed acute fear of the gigantic nameless
was it?" He whispered, and the cleft, bulging lips were just able to
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Rising and leaning over sofa_.]  Kind to you?
and carrying a cheap new valise from Osborn's general store, this
family too, seemed to have grown taciturn; and were far from steady
can easily forget, is happening to me now, and will happen to me again to-
shouldn't have been there; an angle which was acute, but behaved as
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Yes.
skunk-cabbage had been very like one of the anomalous bands of light
CECILY.
up through the mud by the woods across the road. Never were things of
as the ceremony of his coronation. The gates of the palace of John the
studio in Paris and shut myself up till I have finished a great picture
some big box or crate was bein' opened fur off. What with this an'
your time, so you might have known her. I am very much interested in
d the
It was almost nine o’clock before he reached the club, where he found
Oh, that is nonsense!
That curiosity about life which Lord Henry had first stirred in him, as
unknown. I assure you I have no more claim on them than your butler, and
“And here is the key, sir,” said the old lady, going over the contents
“I can’t believe it. Dorian is far too sensible.”
dreamy languorous eyes. “I will go out to the garden with you. It is
tarlike stuff that smells awful an' drips daown offen the aidges onto
him_.]
supper for the whole party. It was a melancholy meal, as hardly any one
bearded, and uncouth of dialect, to consult the copy at Miskatonic,
and don’t move about too much, or pay any attention to what Lord Henry
SALOMÉ.  Mais parle encore.  Parle encore, Iokanaan, et dis-moi ce qu’il
calling in such things from outside, and only very wicked people
lavished on you by your fond and doting parents.
CHASUBLE.
of will and much
sh had been something else--something which
time.  It could not have come before, nor later.  Had any one told me of
_First Published_                                               _1893_
Cheveley stole that letter from my rooms.
a deputation,” said the Rocket; “I will receive them with becoming
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Do you mean to say you have not read _The Times_ leading
Puritan in me.  I was brought up like that.  I am glad of it.  My mother
At length the visitors, apprised of a party of State Police which had
mentioned by the professor.
that have a certain charm for the weak. That is all that can be said
wonderful and incomparable beauty, I have dared to love you wildly,
from a window after a shocking cry. Here likewise a rambling letter
others he opened listlessly. They contained the usual collection of
son.  ‘If poor Hans is in trouble I will give him half my porridge, and
walk unassisted, with falterings which another month was sufficient to
found exceedingly puzzling, and which I felt much averse from showing
came the single glimpse of forbidden eons which chills me when I think
in a bed of asphodel. She dragged it out again and assured me that I
Of course it isn’t!
the only good woman I have ever met in my life.
HÉRODIAS.  Ah!
art. Makes it quite cosmopolitan, doesn’t it? You have never been to
the ancient tottering cottage where the trees first begin to get very
s’il mourrait, il m’arriverait un malheur.  Enfin, il a dit que le jour
him, and which all too clearly had shared the nameless fate of young
is unalterable. I decline to give my consent.
of faint and unhallowed radiance, tipping each bough like the fire
grotesque and fantastic folds the nameless horror of the dead man's
athless Chinamen had told him, were still to be found as Cyclopean
LORD GORING.  Robert, how could you have sold yourself for money?
“That is a very selfish reason,” said the Rocket angrily.  “What right
his friends, or thought that they were so, he himself would creep
in deep mourning for a man who is actually staying for a whole week
doubt at all that the place was haunted. Indeed, Lord Canterville
in her large blue eyes. She was a wonderful Amazon, and had once raced
one only hides it. When I leave town now I never tell my people where I
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Kisses her_.]  Margaret—how pale you look!
and the mellow light of the huge, lace-covered lamp that stood on the
ich cannot be mentioned, and what is done in common
persistent.
vous ai trop regardée.  Mais je ne le ferai plus.  Il ne faut regarder ni
swiftness and motion. The sullen murmur of the bees shouldering their
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Thank you, Arthur, thank you.  But what is to be
hideous news.
stones on islands in the Pacific.
But that was all. The pallid group in the road, still reeling at
voice had begun to break. Earl Sawyer went out to the Whateley place
moral sympathy between us. . . . Well, Arthur, I suppose this romantic
Then ten o’clock struck, and then eleven, and then twelve, and at the
relentlessly.
me is in this bag, and I can easily get to Victoria in twenty minutes.”
of the face, its marked likeness to himself; but what could they learn
. As for being poisoned by a book,
Oh, I’m a little anxious about poor Bunbury, that is all.
When he entered, she looked at him, and an expression of infinite joy
darkened chamber. As Dorian hurried up its three rickety steps, the
the well was a vacant space, except where the earth had caved in;
so potently at unopened and archaic vistas. No recognized school of
himself with the massed lore of cryptography, drawing upon the fullest
citadel whereon great Cthulhu was buried, actually emerged from the
was quite English, and was an excellent example of the fact that we
can forgive myself, I deposited the manuscript in the basinette, and
such an idea into your pretty little head?
have listened to him, and Socrates reasoned with him, and Plato
and whispered on I shivered again and again despite the summer day.
planted fields appear singularly few and barren; while the sparsely
So the Nightingale pressed closer against the thorn, and louder and
who descended on hand-holds with a long pole found that he could sink
ould only do moonlight scenes, which are always depressing
don’t like that. It makes men so very attractive.
awful creakin' an' strainin' on the bridge, an' says he could tell the
from dark stars.
VI
of every day's experience.  A day in prison on which one does not weep is
and general illiteracy of the strange being who wrote it. Almost the
coloured globule are dead. There were other globules--depend upon that.
But nobody heard him, not even the two little boys, for they were sound
the
“Take this round to 152, Hertford Street, Francis, and if Mr. Campbell
SALOMÉ.  Laisse-moi baiser ta bouche.
Scotland Yard about it. I was very nearly offering a large reward.
“Never mind.”
for me all the wells of pity: made the desert blossom like a rose, and
GWENDOLEN.
an hour, get Basil to tell you why he won’t exhibit your picture. He
know you are surprised at my talking to you like this. You have not
trip by taxicab, and knocked with palpitant heart at the door of a neat
go this record of mine--this test of my own sanity, wherein is pieced
Lady Margaret Devereux. I want you to tell me about his mother.
silent heretofore, spoke aloud.
to eat.  But the son is quite interesting.  I think he’s attracted by
[_Il vide la coupe de vin_.]
relentlessly.
has gone to the dogs, a lot of damned nobodies talking about nothing.
She ultimately was so broken-hearted that she went into a convent, or on
of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred which the initiated might read as they
He could not finish the sentence.
cult or system of cryptic lore, he besieged his visitor with demands
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_To_ LADY WINDERMERE.]  How pale you are!
BY
to limit myself, for the future.”
faults, whatever they have been; for to-night you have made a heart in
As my granduncle's heir and executor, for he died a childless widower,
branches seemed to strain more and more toward verticality. The wood
CHAPTER IV.
as unlit and empty, with a cloud of soot
brought upon their souls.
had come at last, and yet she felt no terror. Indeed, in some measure
yourself that name, Dorian,” answered Lord Henry with
approve of your being here.
perfectly secure about dear Berwick.  I don’t know what society is coming
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Well, if even I had the chance, I wouldn’t.  On the
old sun-dial.
pleasure to “Tannhauser” and seeing in the prelude to that great work
stirred me. We were quite close, almost touching. Our eyes met again.
slid greasily into the water and began to pursue with vast wave-raising
Dorian winced and looked round at the grotesque things that lay in such
_Managers_: _Mr. Lewis Waller and Mr. H. H. Morell_
LADY WINDERMERE.  It’s best for me to see him before to-night.  I’m glad
MRS. MARCHMONT.  About myself.
your manners."
in music or in marble, behind the painted masks of an AEschylean play, or
Charming people, such as fishermen, shepherds, ploughboys, peasants and
LADY BRACKNELL.
dreams ever
heavy odour of opium met him. He heaved a deep breath, and his nostrils
GWENDOLEN.
Whateley himself--enough to make a devil and a precocious monster of
Dorian walked to the door with a look of pain in his face. As he drew
British artist. Did you advertise for it? You should.”
They were a little beyond the Seth Bishop place, but bent trees and
own the
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.
us. Don’t sneer at it, Harry, any more—at least not before me. I want
Inspector Legrasse was scarcely prepared for the sensation which his
doing.
But it was Ammi, on one of his rare visits, who first realized that
stones on islands in the Pacific.
armour studded with jacinths, a collar of gold roses set with
wretched man in this wretched place along with me who does not stand in
LORD WINDERMERE.
which to escape them.
as of a cloven sunfish, a stench as of a thousand opened graves, and
itself—something that would breed horrors and yet would never die. What
One Survivor and Dead Man Found Aboard. Tale of Desperate Battle
frightened.
persistent.
their past burning to white ashes before them!  Is Arthur still here?
her for your charming visit.  [_Coming down again_.]  And by the way, I
Dorian Gray laughed and shook his head.
“You are flirting disgracefully with him,” said Lord Henry to his
Nahum, however, ignored the warning, for he had by that time become
from its non-committal bulk. The crouching image with its cuttlefish
his recovery, and my uncle kept no record of his night-thoughts after a
aggressive and going down into the glen in quest of their nameless,
’on lui donne ce qu’elle
in, and to explain to him the new life he was going to lead, to quarrel
Yes, sir. [Jack and Gwendolen go off.]
it fust an' look at the graound. It was all mud an' water, an' the sky
and in flesh—those curious unpictured sins whose very mystery lent them
Nabby, Ammi? ... my head's no good ... dun't know how long sence I fed
spiritual ecstasies of some mediæval saint or the morbid confessions of
would often adopt certain modes of thought that he knew to be really
LORD AUGUSTUS.  My dear boy, when I was your age—
search of an imaginary gallery.
Miss Prism has just been complaining of a slight headache. I think it
chorus of the distorted, hilarious elder gods and the green, bat-winged
Haardrada, which kept alive the name of Oslo during all the centuries
CECILY.
ask Mrs. Erlynne to be kind enough to come up.
Yes, Miss. [Exit Merriman.]
“Sibyl? Oh, she was so shy and so gentle. There is something of a child
from within, apparently, that the foulness and horror had come. Through
universe; some vague abyss out of which only the most accursed rites of
now lying before the meeting.
recalled tales of Old Whateley's youth, and of the strange things that
looking very stern and rather pale, his pallor being intensified by his
those shining orchard trees with their gnarled, fiendish contours; but
prize.  I have a distinct recollection of Lady Chiltern always getting
ian with a
reason, did not crow again.
consciousness or obscure, long-latent heredity, were those
about the sensation I derived from my one lone walk before Ammi told
regarder?  Il ne faut pas la regarder . . . Il peut arriver un malheur.
ty of life still remains to me is contained in some
LADY WINDERMERE.  No, it gave him too much pain.  He told me how my
long greenish-gray tentacles with red sucking mouths protruded limply.
Oh! merely Aunt Augusta and Gwendolen.
“It is not.”
Won’t you help a woman who is trying to get back?
Then came a halt in the gasping, and the dog raised his head in a long,
old boy, you had much better have the thing out at once.
predestined to his presence.  Once at least in his life each man walks
I have to write a few letters.  [_Goes to writing table and sits down_.]
uildings, and even
in gold pieces of extremely ancient date.
slatternly, crinkly-haired albino daughter.
to my parties—the men get quite furious if one doesn’t ask them.  Really,
seriously.  I am very sorry, but it is not my day.
f vital
all.”
lunch there.
or at any rate reveal, is still more to me. To become the spectator of
believe him? There was no trace of the murdered man anywhere.
footprints in the snow. They were the usual winter prints of red
after the play was over?”
tired of London, come down to Treadley and expound to me your
their monstrous stone city again to the sun and air.
it.”
learn them. They are perfectly charming.”
Oh, any name you like—Algernon—for instance . . .
April brought a kind of madness to the country folk, and began that
raiment of the Bride of Christ, who must wear purple and jewels and
a forky bolt flashed near at hand, as if descending into the accursed
That Hallowe'en the hill noises sounded louder than ever, and fire
influences of life as modes of light: the imagination itself is the world
blue thread a long thin dragon-fly floated past on its brown gauze
admit, to an aunt being a small aunt, but why an aunt, no matter what
permission to camp in the park. He accordingly at once set off for
they loved each other so much, that every one was delighted at the
on Saturday week, and I tried to give the fullest possible expression of
much like some forbidden woodcut in a tale of terror.
in such mad worships there is peril, the peril of losing them, no less
sunken once more, for the _Vigilant_ sailed over the spot after the
secret of his life and hide his soul from the eyes of men.
The cloak-room at Victoria Station?
question—simple curiosity. I have a theory that it is always the women
“That would be a premature surrender.”
a. m. on Sunday, the second of February, 1913. This date was recalled
found? Had my uncle, in his latter years, become credulous of the most
incrustées de verre.  J’ai des manteaux qui viennent du pays des Sères et
he said--written in English, evidently in order to safeguard her from
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I have invested very largely in it.
me his tale. When twilight came I had vaguely wished some clouds would
note-book, and used to read over at night, for he was a very good
“I am always telling him so, Lady Narborough,” said Lord Henry with a
through the fine Tudor hall into the library, a long, low room, panelled
LORD WINDERMERE.  Yes, here it is!
and that to him love was lord in the fullest meaning of the phrase.  Some
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _enters_.  _A man of forty_, _but looking somewhat
ears tingled to impulses which were not wholly sounds. Something
shall not tell her—I forbid you.
I am afraid of the women.  You must introduce me to some of them.  The
shine on the telescopes and photographic plates of our observatories.
PARKER.  Lord Darlington, my lady.
wearing a silk hat and Inverness cape_.  _White-gloved_, _he carries a
CECILY.
can be ruined except by his own hand.  I am quite ready to say so.  I am
animals. He went much against his will, for the afternoon was advancing
upper spaces. It was, he said, exactly like a smell he had found in the
At half-past ten he heard the family going to bed. For some time he was
LADY CHILTERN.  Good morning, dear!  How pretty you are looking!
grave, and showed it to him.
of the police for any antiquarian lore which might help them to place
upon ghosts, so there were not even those primary conditions of
to me that such a monstrous suspicion would have entered your mind, I
able to comprehend some of the lessons hidden in the heart of pain.
had left their hives and taken to the woods.
for them. They are simply cheques that men draw on a bank where they
gossips would not credit this. Certainly, however, restlessness was
spoke and stood looking out at the garden. Campbell made no answer.
world’s history. The first is the appearance of a new medium for art,
philosophies, the philosophy of power, preached to us the most marvellous
wholly outside the sane experience of mankind.
are farms, ancient and rocky, with squat, moss-coated cottages brooding
which clasped the croucher's elevated knees. The aspect of the whole
GWENDOLEN.
e dogs' barking on the night Wilbur was born, but no known doctor
Mr. Dumby
making of us are false idols merely.  You made your false idol of me, and
dilapidation. Without knowing why, one hesitates to ask directions
LADY CHILTERN.  That they may be entirely separate.  It would be better
Narborough, pretending to listen to the duke’s description of the last
before the terrified housekeeper could interfere, he had fallen upon his
grassless squares. About half-past eight I passed by an absurd little
took.  We all may make mistakes.
HÉRODIAS.  Il ne faut pas la regarder.  Vous la regardez toujours!
nighted woods like pestilential tempests from the gulfs of hell.
not faded with the silhouette, and in a fearsome instant of deeper
quivering every morning. They had, it developed, nearly lost the spirit
the sort of fatality that seems to dog through history the faltering
must fight her.
thing it had escaped. As the shadows gathered, the natives commenced
thoroughly experienced in the practice of all the rites and ceremonials
Lord Henry flung himself into a large wicker arm-chair and watched him.
What it is, only God knows. In terms of matter I suppose the thing
of Professor Webb.
“What is that?”
grey desolation that sprawled open to the sky like a great spot eaten
man could gasp or cry out. No watcher can ever forget that sight, and
the valley. It was just that. Only a wooden ripping and crackling, and
[_Strolls away_.]
dreaming."
attainments, had had a prominent part in all the deliberations; and was
He had not long survived his return, said his wife, for the doings at
_bric-à-brac_ shop, all monsters and dust, with everything priced above
of Dæmons are Matters of too common Knowledge to be deny'd; the
It is the imaginative quality of Christ's own nature that makes him this
y stickiness, the blasphemous tracks
and no more.  Towards the close it is suggested that, caught in a cunning
elaborate bars that he had caused to be placed upon the door.
JACK.
GWENDOLEN.
the road, were now neighing and pawing frantically. The wagon driver
face is gittin' to hev that colour sometimes towards night ... an' it
LONDON
court of inquiry.
divine beyond all living things. When she acts, you will forget
found no adequate cause for the end, and laid it to heart trouble and a
“Well, I hope he won’t stick pins into you, Duchess,” laughed Dorian.
Ol' Whateley must a raised suthin' in that there nailed-up haouse as
hands with you.  My hands are all wet with these roses.  Aren’t they
ight headache. I think it
“Early the next morning the Miller came down to get the money for his
marred many moments of joy. It had been like conscience to him. Yes, it
sing of the _Scholar Gipsy_, it is the reed that he has to take for the
dripping with green ooze and sinister with latent horror. Hieroglyphics
ici.  Il y a du vent ici.  N’est-ce pas qu’il y a du vent?
LADY WINDERMERE.  Must?
"What an angel you are!" cried the young Duke, and he put his arm round
the Harpies--may reproduce themselves in the brain of
on honeycomb.  But to have continued the same life would have been wrong
"Inbreeding?" Armitage muttered half aloud to himself. "Great God, what
simply.
mean something else. And that makes me so nervous.
“Here,” answered Sir Geoffrey angrily, hurrying towards the thicket.
_and replaces the whole thing in his breast-pocket with the most perfect
DY AGATHA _and_ MR. HOPPER _enter from
listening, though not for any sound which they could consciously
was, he displayed some interest; for my uncle had excited his curiosity
h never arrives, whilst items from India
so irreparable, so irremediable, a loss.  Messages of sympathy reached me
Upon my word, if I thought that, I’d shoot myself . . . [A pause.] You
man could gasp or cry out. No watcher can ever forget that sight, and
without my knowledge.  I thought that the person who was waiting in that
the mortuary cloth of King Chilperic, with its three hundred golden
lis.  Les yeux des aveugles verront le jour, et les oreilles des sourds
any one else in the whole world has, and all through the mere fact of her
CECILY.
trunk or feeler with purple annular markings, and with many evidences
LORD GORING.  Oh! bother Tommy Trafford.  Tommy is a silly little ass.  I
now resolved to visit Mate Johansen in Oslo. Sailing for London, I
furious, but restrains himself.]
LE PAGE D’HÉRODIAS.  Le jeune Syrien s’est tué! le jeune capitaine s’est
much more calm and confidence than I would were my body in purple and
Basil, and the French police declare that Basil never arrived in Paris
Sydney, and had thereafter sold his cottage in West Street and sailed
have that sort of thing in their houses.
His eye fell on the yellow book that Lord Henry had sent him. What was
Johansen proceeded to navigate the captured yacht, going ahead in
He hesitated for some moments, with a strangely immobile smile upon his
faded rose. He thought of his friend’s young fiery-coloured life and
blowing about in the chill wind that came down the chimney. Presently
LORD GORING.  It is a matter of the gravest importance, Phipps.
Mr. Moncrieff and I are engaged to be married, Lady Bracknell.
"Did your Luther take accaount o' whar them big tracks led tew? No?
The lad started, as if awakened from some dream.
ORING.  I am under the impression that my lawyer settled that
temperament, for I am well known for my sympathetic nature.  In fact, you
“Devant une façade rose,
slay around idol-capped monoliths in lonely places. He must have been
beginning tomorrow, at which every effort will be made to induce
Gray, with his beautiful eyes, looked down at her, and his chiselled
its counterpart in the sensuous life, and set himself to discover their
their aspects and motions, and their nocturnal habits contradicted all
philosophy are mine, yet for want of a red rose is my life made
reform a man is by boring him so completely that he loses all possible
shall ever look on you.  You will never see me again.  For one moment our
from time to time between his explosions. An alliterative prefix served
* * * * *
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_Gravely_.]  I have been obliged for the present to put
morse in the ordinary, rather silly sense of the word.  But I have
well. There was a crushed and apparently somewhat melted mass of iron
Gray lying face downwards on the tiled floor in a deathlike swoon.
IOKANAAN.  Où est celui dont la coupe d’abominations est déjà pleine?  Où
gossip. Thaddeus, an especially sensitive youth, suffered the most.
like, it being answerable from the hill and not from the air. That
the number being slightly superior, because of their particularly
gunpowder.  There was no doubt about it.
glad to hear you say that.
thousand marks, which was covered with balas rubies. Hall described
time to certain heathen gods. It had for some time been noticed that
stepped stealthily out of the wainscoting, with an evil smile on his
Good-bye a second time; I see my daughters in the distance:” and the
that he put his hands to his head with a moan.
Lord Henry smiled, and leaning down, plucked a pink-petalled daisy from
If Dorian Gray’s life were spoiled, no one would be sorrier than
of his equally weird reading and imagining. Later, by virtue of its
find one of the two horse-pistols, but, on the whole, he was quite
strange visitations. My uncle, it seems, had quickly instituted a
wun't keer ter git very nigh Wizard Whateley's!
amusing to talk to.
LADY CHILTERN.  May I give you some tea, Mrs. Cheveley?
and amuse me.”
will you understand me?—his personality has suggested to me an entirely
Lord Henry looked serious for some moments. “It is perfectly
you? Before I could answer that, I should have to see your soul.”
picture carried to the top of the house for me. It is rather heavy, so
I don’t care a bit.  Genius like mine is sure to be appreciated some
Four days after these curious incidents, a funeral started from
of the blood-stain on the library floor. If the Otis family did not want
hundred years, had he been so grossly insulted. He thought of the
the table_.]  People who don’t keep their appointments in the Park are
think they are quite impossible.  Geniuses talk so much, don’t they?
For heaven’s sake, don’t try to be cynical. It’s perfectly easy to be
_Sole Lessee_: _Mr. Herbert Beerbohm Tree_
faded wholly away when they put it in a glass beaker. The beaker had
lune deviendra comme du sang et où les étoiles tomberont sur la terre
CHAPTER XIV.
simply want my cigarette case back.
As the painter looked at the gracious and comely form he had so
You have invented a very useful younger brother called Ernest, in order
"Please don't go, Miss Virginia," he cried; "I am so lonely and so
Pray ask the lady to come out here; Mr. Worthing is sure to be back
now resolved to visit Mate Johansen in Oslo. Sailing for London, I
veux pas rester ici.  Viens, je te dis.  Je suis sûr qu’il va arriver un
But we are not likely to suffer from it unless these fellows keep
JACK.
too, the natives are mortally afraid of the numerous whippoorwills
Did I give you this? It’s very pretty, isn’t it?
that enables a woman to get back.  You have neither the wit nor the
envelopes, tears them up.]
Groaning, Screeching, and Hissing, such as no Things of this Earth
HÉRODE [_riant_] Dans un bassin d’argent? mais oui, dans un bassin
big pocket-handkerchief.
“Bring me the two most precious things in the city,” said God to one of
blank, and Ammi, when he had reached home and heard the tale, could
“That you may censure it the better.”
backwaters. They have come to form a race by themselves, with the
alliance, and I want you both to be happy.”
_recombining_ in its hateful original form, whilst its distance widened
with a brooding fear he dared not even mention for many years to come.
he failed to unearth; and whilst high up on the West Greenland coast
frore gusts from interstellar space. It shrieked and howled, and lashed
passionately, devotedly, hopelessly.
to look after his wife and Zenas if they survived him. It must all be a
subsidence into lethargy.
Wilcox still lived alone in the Fleur-de-Lys Building in Thomas
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma.
HÉRODE.  Je le jure, Salomé.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Far more!  I have greatly improved.
noted by my uncle?
appeared to shoot up from the bla
But Joe Osborn interrupted him to question the Arkham men anew.
pasturage there sprang up a bizarre growth which only a botanist could
and Deaths at Sea. Rescued Seaman Refuses Particulars of Strange
grinning Negroes beat monotonously upon copper drums and, crouching
thunder sounded from far horizons. Sheet lightning shimmered, and then
.  En effet, j’étais le plus fort . . . mais ne parlons pas de
children. He would insist on calling me ‘My Lord,’ so I had to assure
in every line of the mate's frightened description.
LORD GORING.  [_Keeping his eyes steadily fixed on the carpet_.]  State
there was a State Banquet, which lasted for five hours.  The Prince and
lay its hand upon his heart.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Laughing_.]  Then we will talk of it on the terrace.
CHAPTER III.
Well, my own dear, sweet, loving little darling, I really can’t see why
General’s Christian name was. But I have no doubt he had one. He was
thread, and each note, of square shape in those days, formed with four
his own. A sense of infinite pity, not for himself, but for the painted
Is there no way by which I can get it?”
each other.  We are not worthy of them.  Besides, Robert has been
as usual!  You should be in bed, sir.  You keep too late hours!  I heard
mother, who knew life as a whole, used often to quote to me Goethe's
t the skylark
of which poetry and legend alone have caught a flying memory
quite frankly before-hand that I am fully determined to accept you.
Wasn’t he one of your men?”
had died before I had been so horribly tempted, or had fallen so low.
it, and sending forth to the zenith a bombarding cloudburst of such
of the dusty, curving road. The trees of the frequent forest belts
as he spoke.
entire case, and could find no convincing common element to link the
daughters had come up quite suddenly to stay with her, and, to make
LADY WINDERMERE.  What has that to do with me?
way back from Clark's Corners. There had been a moon, and a rabbit had
the coming of death that terrifies me. Its monstrous wings seem to
LANE.
wonderful of poems.  For 'pity and terror' there is nothing in the entire
"I REALLY MUST INSIST ON YOUR OILING THOSE CHAINS"
shapes and colours, and be changed, or have other secrets, a world in
of the countryside.
of those utterly tedious amusements one only finds at an English country
world was made. Besides nameless rites and human sacrifices there were
than his own, save perhaps in certain special formulæ and incantations.
be no forgiveness.
brain, and in champak that stained the imagination; and seeking often
sympathy was expressed for the mother of the deceased, who was greatly
JACK.
business, Miss Fairfax states.
convolvulus. The flower seemed to quiver, and then swayed gently to and
of foul flame, and lambent tricklings of the same monstrous fire were
dark courts on the precipitous hillside which formed a short cut from
rushed into the water.
Qu’est-ce que vous voulez qu’on vous apporte dans un bassin d’argent?
by Wilbur Whateley, who had lashed his one remaining horse through the
“Our host is a delightful topic. Years ago he was christened Prince
a phenomenon as the aerolite would be certain to start. There was
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Thank you.
“And does his philosophy make you happy?”
LORD GORING.  What is your price for it?
wake by passionate words some fire within me?  I am cold—cold as a
“Now, mind you don’t stay too long over your politics and scandal,”
JACK.
courtisane, comme une prostituée, moi, Salomé, fille d’Hérodias,
whatever it may be worth; Dorian Gray’s good looks—we shall all suffer
am filled with awe.”
reagents. Water did nothing. Hydrochloric acid was the same. Nitric
the low roofs and jagged chimney-stacks of the houses rose the black
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  [_Indignantly_.]  To Australia?  Oh, don’t mention
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Pray don’t trouble, Lord Windermere.
LADY CHILTERN.  We have both been punished.
would have fled had he not feared the scorn of the others, and it was
[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
appy home if they did.  Not yours, I need hardly say,
How do you do?  Do you know, Lady Windermere, I am so sorry about your
seemed quite to satisfy. Everyone seemed to feel himself in close
I am more than usually tall for my age. [Algernon is rather taken
Cthulhu for a glorious resurrection when the stars and the earth might
tenderness, in Shakespeare, the most purely human of all the great
before any suspicions would be roused. Months! Everything could be
borders of that spot, for they might shed light on the country notion
LORD GORING.  I am far too young.
GWENDOLEN.
meteor had yielded in the previous year. The property of emitting this
court, the streets of Dunedin, and the long voyage back home to the
his voice. “But I seem to have lost the passion and forgotten the
HÉRODIAS.  Si, vous avez peur de lui.  Si vous n’aviez pas peur de lui,
here to try to find one.
feebly rise, only to sink down again upon the place from which the
horses had become utterly frightful, but not a soul of that group in
Health is the primary duty of life. I am always telling that to your
sounds which came increasingly from the great empty shell formed by
l of her since then.
over _some_ shameful passion.
is Agatha?  Oh, there she is:  [LADY AGATHA _and_ MR. HOPPER _enter from
we adopt towards people whom we personally dislike.  You dislike me.
face in his hands.
extraordinarily dramatic life is! If I had read all this in a book,
London Society was entirely made up of dowdies and
MRS. CHEVELEY.  As if anything could demoralise Robert Chiltern!  You
over nothing remained but a ragged pit by the ancient well-sweep,
incestueuse, afin qu’elle puisse entendre les paroles de celui qui
[Grimly.] I have known strange errors in that publication.
was in danger, since the Elder Things wished to strip it and drag it
father? Born on Candlemas--nine months after May Eve of 1912, when the
to me.  So one should look on love.
he was most conscientious in all things connected with the supernatural.
miel sauvage.
by some hateful current of vapour.
relentlessly.
|         YE OTIS GHOSTE             |
the end.
“Tell it to me,” said the Nightingale, “I am not afraid.”
are quite unworthy of it.  Nobody is worthy to be loved.  The fact that
quiet daown like. I expeck them an' the souls they hunts fer hev some
Whateley saw how things stood, and tried to answer lightly.
*       *       *       *       *
CECILY.
JACK.
“Quack, quack, quack,” she said.  “What a curious shape you are!  May I
should forgive.  All lives, save loveless lives, true Love should pardon.
LADY MARKBY.  She has just arrived from Vienna.
and they gouged rather than chipped a specimen to take back to the
never see a thing, only them trees an' bushes a-bendin'. An' when the
a modern sinner. It was a poisonous book. The heavy odour of incense
round.
spoke slowly and with effort. They passed words to each other as
The music jarred, and Dorian Gray started and stared at his friend.
Nahum asked him if the extra wood had made him any more comfortable,
the painter and the screen. “Basil,” he said, looking very pale, “you
reek of overt viciousness and of half-hidden murders, incests, and
a celebrated New York belle, was now a very handsome, middle-aged woman,
and Zenas were both there, in part, though the vestiges were mainly
things.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  You don’t deserve her, sir.
“Certainly.”
LORD DARLINGTON.
surmised that they are bills, as Algernon, after looking at the
searched for pleasure.”
GORING.  Please don’t, Miss Mabel.  I have something very particular
I shall probably go back to Court, for I know that I am destined to make
harm; so we mustn't hesitate to rid the community of it.
The girl smiled. “Dorian,” she answered, lingering over his name with
example, and a flower or a child a simple example, of what I mean; but
that she never told me he was good-looking. Women have no appreciation
different kind of people.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Uphold it, sir?  How little you know him!
the steep green side of the hill. Then he handed the instrument to
wonderful presence of mind.
LORD DARLINGTON.  To-morrow I leave England.  This is the last time I
their tiny hands waved to her to go back. "Go back!
“Ah! but what do you mean by good?” cried Basil Hallward.
at that tense moment over a point which was essentially scientific.
telepathic instant?
LORD CAVERSHAM.  He is very heartless, very heartless.
“How do you know?” said the Mathematical Master, “you have never seen
him, and to make his passing out a pretty terrible sight. I'm going
indicated; and most of the natives followed slowly. The sky was growing
here and then leaving it about in Darlington’s rooms, it is unpardonable.
another man!  But if I had known he was going to make you ask her here
VISCOUNT GORING             _Mr. Charles H. Hawtrey_.
MRS. CHEVELEY.
Robert is a great champion of the Higher Education of Women, and so, I am
[Very sweetly.] I knew there must be some misunderstanding, Miss
I couldn’t find the photograph anywhere.  At last I discovered it in my
y should both represent man at his highest.  I see no
also over breakfast, tasting the various dishes, talking to his valet
sudden death.  But a tragic ending of this kind, though touched by
CHILTERN.]
There was nothing to fear. Dorian Gray had not killed her.
Arthur.
thick. It was a fearsomely ancient place, and had begun to exude the
In the open spaces, mostly along the line of the old road, there were
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Thanks so much.
LADY WINDERMERE.  That woman is not coming here to-night!
way, and his unkempt clothing and white beard made him seem very worn
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes.  [_To_ PARKER.]  Parker, send my cloak out.
look like him. You shrug your shoulders? I am telling you the truth.
all directions at random for something they could not tell what. It was
told you it was a question of rational compromise.  It is no more than
buttons back.
out.  You should read this article, sir.  [_Opens_ The Times.]  ‘Sir
I think it is most ill-natured of her.
queerly synchronized with bursts of flame--"them witch Whateleys'
9
decorated for himself and hung with some curious Renaissance tapestries
watch. “I have heaps of time,” he answered.
LORD GORING.
intonation.  When, at last, by means of the play within the play, and the
LADY PLYMDALE.  That woman!
the coloured. The plain women are very useful. If you want to gain a
GWENDOLEN.
last night?
speak guardedly of serious native unrest toward the end of
Robert into her toils.
play a part. Certainly no one looking at Dorian Gray that night could
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_Severely_.]  Pray, Mr. Montford, do not make these
LORD WINDERMERE.  Well, that is no business of yours, is it, Cecil?
turned round. Hallward stirred in his chair as if he was going to rise.
difference between them.
that Queen had selected for her device. Some large blue china jars and
lugubrious howl. A change came over the yellow, goatish face of the
that could cure the plague. In the nests of Arabian birds was the
mouthful. All that day he read on, now and then halted maddeningly as
clothes, my smoking jacket, and all the Bunbury suits . . .
ALGERNON.
polished boar-spear. Crowned with heavy lotus-blossoms you had sat on
highly recommend to you. We could wax rhapsodical
pains.
Christ.
and Sophocles are of his company.  But his entire life also is the most
found no adequate cause for the end, and laid it to heart trouble and a
I’m feeling very well, Aunt Augusta.
Goring, about Mrs. Cheveley?  Oh! I remember, that she was a genius in
had seen upstairs. Good God! What eldritch dream-world was this into
but occasional frantic words, as repeated by Dr. Tobey, convinced the
shouldn’t commit any.  [_Sees_ LADY WINDERMERE’S _fan on sofa_.]
not true!  Lie to me!  Lie to me!  Tell me it is not true!
virtue.  Reformed, you would be perfectly tedious.  That is the worst of
Whateley's diary and read some of the strange old books he used to
swore to a slow but steady increase in the mysterious hill noises. On
ve glimpses of strange landscapes, and in one case there
One of the current Arkham tales is about fat oaks that shine and move
UN SADDUCÉEN.  Les anges n’existent pas.
LORD GORING.  I like you immensely.
to record.  My wife, always kind and gentle to me, rather than that I
Jew manager who met them at the door was beaming from ear to ear with
[In a clear, cold voice.] Miss Cardew is the grand-daughter of the late
“Conversation, indeed!” said the Rocket.  “You have talked the whole time
boucliers d’ivoire.  Il n’y avait rien au monde d’aussi blanc que ton
found no adequate cause for the end, and laid it to heart trouble and a
shallow psychology of those who conceive the ego in man as a thing
Toward the middle of the next night he drowsed off in his chair, but
DUMBY.  Good evening, Lady Stutfield.  I suppose this will be the last
LORD GORING.  Lady Chiltern, I have a certain amount of very good news to
portrait grow old; that his own beauty might be untarnished, and the
You fill me with horror.  There is something about you that stirs the
sail over a big lake on large flat leaves, and are always at war with the
laugh? Or that passion to act a part that sometimes makes us do things
explanation of the extraordinary amount of suffering that there is in the
h of the fact that Old Whateley always paid for his cattle
presume you know what that unfortunate movement led to? As for the
keeping straight on to town. He did not wish to cross the blighted,
the tray. “It is rather late, and, as you have to dress, you had better
watched her enviously.
unhooked. The door opened quietly, and he went in without saying a word
did not see how he could honourably escape from his obligations. It is
there was only a venomous seething astern; where--God in heaven!--the
ibyl that I was not anything of the kind. She said quite simply to me,
“What would you say, Harry, if I told you that I had murdered Basil?”
birds on their gauntleted wrists. How well he remembered it all! Every
thing more tragic than all the tears the world has ever shed.  You don’t
SALOMÉ.  Donnez-moi la tête d’Iokanaan.
place a visit. There was no smoke from the great chimney, and for a
he was anxious to be away. But he could not help glancing nervously
“Pray don’t, Lady Ruxton,” said Lord Henry. “Moderation is a fatal
bruising the knuckles of his right hand.
the masonry of that charnel shore that was not of earth the titan Thing
believe that anything contrary to natural law had occurred. No doubt
for though he shared his mother's and grandfather's chinlessness, his
one is worthy of love, except him who thinks that he is.  Love is a
painted bar that ran across one complete side stood two haggard women,
king girl with beautiful _dark_ hair.
t wait all that time. I hate
chance.  You knew that to spare her the ignominy of learning that a woman
beneath forgotten sea-bottoms. But of them old Castro dared not speak
tenebris...._ The old librarian rehearsed the formulæ he had memorized,
LADY CHILTERN.  Yes, to every one, without exception.
of time. I remember recommending one to young Lady Lancing, and after
Delighted to see you, my dear father.  [_Goes to meet him_.]
refuses it with a gesture_.]
think I should have the smallest scruple in doing so.  She is thoroughly
JAMES                       _Mr. Charles Meyrick_.
moved despite my rational beliefs. Wilcox, I was sure, had heard of
Sentinel Hill seemed to Armitage of almost cataclysmic significance,
the sense of most real.
the open door the heavy scent of the lilac, or the more delicate
While I was in Wandsworth prison I longed to die.  It was my one desire.
wilted to a curious, sickly yellow-gray, and over field and forest were
the curtain from its rod and flung it on the ground.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  When did you see it last?
and some of them will doubtless linger even when half the hollows are
simple hushed into silenc
ALGERNON.
only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is
d, Lady Chiltern.  Since he
These words had formed part of that dread ritual which told of dead
grandfather's last words as quoted by the physician. A visit to Dunwich
“Pooh” at the top of his voice, gave a whisk with his tail, and went back
LORD WINDERMERE.  My child, you may be on the brink of a great sorrow.
none.  I am far more of an individualist than I ever was.  Nothing seems
to be forced to speak the truth. It is the first time in my life that I
Then he remembered the lamp.
I wish he would arrive at some conclusion.
a morbid fancy. No traveler has ever escaped a sense of strangeness in
cried; “there is not a single cloud in the sky, the stars are quite clear
wandering through the forest of
LADY BASILDON.  What martyrs we are, dear Margaret!
all the countryside.
of you to pretend that you do. Well, she made it out of nothing.
down_.]  I thought your frock so charming last
[Picture: Decorative graphic of bird]
es began
“Eighteen years,” said the man. “Why do you ask me? What do years
trying to read the great odorous books which her father had inherited
normal ideas of motivation stood confounded. Only old Zebulon, who
easily as one knows their bonnets. One can always find them. There is
Well, one must be serious about something, if one wants to have any
faint phosphorescence had begun to pervade the entire apartment. It
time, and should be shunned.
w and then, however, he
too, is full of wild rumor and legendry, and a fantastic painter named
If after I am free a friend of mine gave a feast, and did not invite me
caution before audacity and see that it meets no other eye.
the symbolic value of sensuous phenomena. The question of phantasmic
"Mr. Armitage," he said, "I calc'late I've got to take that book home.
above the murmurs of the gathering crowd there came the sound of a
Professor Angell.
he was anxious to be away.
all agreed that plants of that kind ought never to sprout in a healthy
Then the men, having reached a spot where the trees were thinner, came
n Elizabeth, and consequently they all fall asleep
.  But to suffer
at all over my son.  I wish I had.  If I had, I know what I would make
"Oh, bother my hat! I want Virginia!" cried the little Duke, laughing,
I am not punctual myself, I know, but I do like punctuality in others,
stars, though this time his wife did not accompany him. It had now
night. It must be this which keeps the foreigners away, for old Ammi
a kind of growth or nourishment even now. But whatever demon hatchling
what art should be—unconscious, ideal, and remote. One day, a fatal day
and college chemists could be interested enough to analyze the water
JACK.
raving.
You have always told me it was Ernest. I have introduced you to every
to his quarters in three days; but to Professor Angell he was of no
“Come, Sibyl,” said her brother impatiently. He hated his mother’s
My dear fellow, Gwendolen is my first cousin. And before I allow you to
up as many able-bodied men-folks as we could get, at Corey's place,
it trembled all over with ecstasy, and opened its petals to the cold
Professor
LADY CHILTERN.  Oh!
only verbs and pronouns.
whippoorwills outside. Bits of shoe-leather and fragments of apparel
with their green-toned golds and their marvellously plumaged birds.
talk, or bridge over gaps, where his sense of logic and continuity
LORD GORING.  Certainly, father.  But let us go into another room.
There were ammonia and caustic soda, alcohol and ether, nauseous carbon
husband—or some distant relative of that kind.  It would be an additional
ns’, I knew you were the only person I had ever cared for, if I
had love in my heart.  The external things of life seem to me now of no
door. There, of course, I
beautiful he is no longer useful,” said the Art Professor at the
was devoted to others; you would have to charm him.  You would have to be
permissible to say that, aside from the external appearance of face
corrupt French Drama has been propounding for the last fifty years.
goes out_, _with a parting glare of indignation at_ LORD GORING.]
herself. Yet when he had put it on, he had been completely overpowered
probably get on my cuffs. One should always eat muffins quite calmly.
all these things. The portrait was to bear the burden of his shame:
LADY CHILTERN.  Robert!  Oh! it is horrible that I should have to ask you
All day long he flew, and at night-time he arrived at the city.
box of black and gold-dust lacquer, elaborately wrought, the sides
point of view. Was it not Gautier who used to write about _la
demande!  C’est bien la fille de sa mère!  [_Le premier soldat
Cruelty! Had he been cruel? It was the girl’s fault, not his. He had
foolishly. She was only a year older than he was, but she knew so much
come to him.
and problems for expert solution.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh, don’t be so solemn about it, or I shall be obliged to
who formed a cult which had never died. This was that cult, and the
architecture, and formal French tragedy, and St. Paul's Cathedral, and
sense of honour, of goodness, of purity. You have filled them with a
was ever admitted to the closely-boarded upper story.
highly recommend to you. We could wax rhapsodical
Babylone avec ses yeux d’or et ses paupières dorées!  Voici ce que dit le
saound o' wood a-startin' to crack an' split. An' all the whiles he
upon the horrible thing. No eye but his would ever see his shame.
d that young Wilcox had known of the older matters
the date of young Wilcox's seizure, and expired several months later
Sur le marbre d’un escalier.
and Dr. Armitage was among those who witnessed its monstrous prologue.
invulnerability. Ammi had difficulty in recalling all these things, but
we credit our neighbour
sanctuaire.
worship, so Inspector Legrasse and his nineteen colleagues plunged on
ridicule. It was a mistake of Nahum's to tell a stolid city man about
That it was Christ's creed admits of no doubt.  That it is the true creed
Then he went on into his own room, looking somewhat puzzled. After he
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What then?
In the centre of the room, clamped to an upright easel, stood the
sin, folly.  And then suddenly—Oh!  Life is terrible.
charge of the dreaded volume. Wilbur had been shockingly nervous at
MRS. CHEVELEY [_Leaning back in her chair_.]  Do you know, Gertrude, I
never seen him before; and the Giant felt very sad.
heaved up from the sea-bottom the horrors that filled men's dreams.
invisible blasphemy had passed it.
see, but that had all the vicious malevolence of a demon. Opposite the
not an explosion, as so many others of the party vowed. Yet the outcome
to-morrow.”
apportant sur un bouclier d’argent la tête d’Iokanaan_.  _Salomé la
One Survivor and Dead Man Found Aboard. Tale of Desperate Battle
my plan for rechristening everything, Gladys. It is a delightful idea.”
By that noon fully three-quarters of the men and boys of Dunwich were
LORD GORING.  Danger is too great a word.  It is a word I should not have
for some dead woman whose hair was like threads of fine gold, and whose
u
reality of the description flashed across him. Yes, there would be a
HOPPER.  How do you do, Lady Windermere?  How do you do, Duchess?  [_Bows
him.
Was it all true? Had the portrait really changed? Or had it been simply
fermés maintenant.  Pourquoi sont-ils fermés?  Ouvre tes yeux!
seemed quite to satisfy. Everyone seemed to feel himself in close
shall be redder than a red rose, and the sapphire shall be as blue as the
frilled at the wrists and neck, and a rusty dagger.
“He looks just like an angel,” said the Charity Children as they came out
Well, it is Ernest after all. I mean it naturally is Ernest.
and called them gods, monsters, mythical beings of all sorts
and waited. Hour after hour he waited, but the cock, for some strange
truest eidolon to that shape without sight or substance which is
y displeased if he learned that that was the way in which
LADY BRACKNELL.
desired to keep at a distance. It appeared to Dorian to have but little
sins once, and has done with its sin, for action is a mode of
let her come to any harm. Mother, you must watch over her.”
certain degree, it served his purpose. Still in spite of everything he
JACK.
everything. There had been a frantic shriek from the yard then, but
his flowerlike bloom. How different it was with material things! Where
begins writing in diary.]
disappeared or was killed. Speakers would not be exact; and because
This suspense is terrible. I hope it will last. [Enter Jack with a
feeds on everything livin' an' gits stronger all the time. He said he
JACK.
felt that you admired me too much. That is not even a compliment.”
concerning heirship are said to be still in progress amongst the
looked as if they were made of silver, they were so bright and
were so wounded that he would not appear. Mr. Otis consequently resumed
near my wife—
of reality, and of our frightful position therein, that we shall either
bonnets . . . are they at all better?
Oh! are there women so horrible as that . . .?  And she proposes to send
storms and monster waves. On April 12th the derelict was sighted;
They reign again.
and said to each other, “What a distinguished stranger!” so he enjoyed
CECILY.
JACK.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
and earth tremors of March 1st.
sacks of flour stored away in his mill, and six milch cows, and a large
ball-room_.]
sure to chronicle the fact next week. Mr. Ernest Worthing and I are
finest Georgian steeple in America. I found him at work in his rooms,
cigarette case was given to me in the country.
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Smiling_.]  Oh, anything is better than being
terms.  It is for you to accept them.  Supposing you refuse—
first interview the manuscript records daily calls of the young man,
Cthulhu's dream-vigil in his stone vault at R'lyeh, and I felt deeply
Nahum to deal with now; he must be fed and tended, and removed to some
pause_.  _Then the eyes of the two women meet_.  LADY CHILTERN _looks
LADY BRACKNELL.
I love scrapes. They are the only things that are never serious.
si, je le sais.
Perhaps she followed us to the schools.
But the Tree shook its head.
LADY MARKBY.  Dining at home by yourselves?  Is that quite prudent?  Ah,
humans, and the unaccountable deaths of Merwin and Zenas in
She sang first of the birth of love in the heart of a boy and a girl.
still devoted to the study of chemistry, and had a laboratory of his
Bunbury! Well, I won’t have him talk to you about Bunbury or about
“I don’t believe that, Harry, and I don’t believe you do either.
what lay beyond it, everything about me was so beautiful.  My courtiers
MABEL CHILTERN.  It is too late now, I suppose?
with me one night longer?”
data on Wilbur Whateley and the formless presences around Dunwich. He
slight touch of pride_.  _One feels that he is conscious of the success
his courtship, and it lasted all through the summer.
pain. There is a luxury in self-reproach. When we blame ourselves, we
object, the doctor added, was invariably a prelude to the young man's
obvious that our social spheres have been widely different.
that the ends of the facial feelers brushed the backs of huge forepaws
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Oh! never mind me.  I’ll face them.
already waiting for him. An hour later he was at the opera, and Lord
'report Hamlet and his cause aright to the unsatisfied,'
children at their games, and admired his garden.  “I have many beautiful
recalled the old Sunday stories in the _Advertiser_; these things, and
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Smiling_.]  To-morrow.
ic. Years ago he was christened Prince
trap.
disturbed Professor Angell. He questioned the sculptor with scientific
ridicule. It was a mistake of Nahum's to tell a stolid city man about
wish it. We can’t both be christened Ernest. It’s absurd. Besides, I
ad gone. Five eldritch acres of
SECOND SOLDAT.  La bague de la mort.  Ainsi, il n’a pas eu peur.
him.
course a man who is much talked about is always very attractive. One
jealousy, his wild devotion, his extravagant panegyrics, his curious
e, and the wild weeds, brambles, and grasses attain a
unplaceable stone.
growed ... I seen it the fust time this week ... must a' got strong
suppose I shouldn’t talk about your own aunt in that way before you.
architectural proportions that in women who are not duchesses are
Ah, nowadays that is no guarantee of respectability of character. What
dangerous nowadays for a husband to pay any attention to his wife in
The Morrison Co.'s freighter _Vigilant_, bound from Valparaiso,
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Takes letter and reads it_.]  A seat in the
lightning-like on deck and reversed the wheel. There was a mighty
de ses flots.
of incisions, seemed to afflict the visible cattle; and once or twice
you say to me. I know I was right in acting as I did. Poor Hetty! As I
against him, my son. He was your father, and a gentleman.
own words, "was not without apprehension lest, amid the enervating
things rustled in the undergrowth. Upon everything was a haze of
thoroughly.
MABEL CHILTERN.  That is a strange request.
By the way, did you tell Gwendolen the truth about your being Ernest in
If you don’t come to my assistance, I am ruined. Why, they will hang
many_.  _The note of his manner is that of perfect distinction_, _with a
from the same reason that Wilbur grew fast and big--but it beat him
away--draws ye--ye know summ'at's comin', but 'tain't no use--" Ammi is
LORD GORING.  Yes.
An' that ain't the wust, nuther. They's _prints_ in the rud, Mis'
artificial manner. The voice was exquisite, but from the point of view
Mr. Ernest Worthing has just driven over from the station. He has
flowers had not been watered for two days, but he did not like to refuse
wondering if ever before it had concealed the secret of a man’s life.
recalled tales of Old Whateley's youth, and of the strange things that
shall we go?
reality. The coarse brawl, the loathsome den, the crude violence of
paper?  How silly to write on pink paper!  It looks like the beginning of
and he and the boys were in a constant state of nervous tension.
say when faced by the unknown.
merchants smoke their long tasselled pipes and talk gravely to each
beautiful,' though I may fall many times in the mire and often in the
I write this account of the mode of my being transferred here simply that
When a traveler in north central Massachusetts takes the wrong fork
duration. Duty came first; and although there must have been nearly a
begged me to introduce him to you. He is quite delightful and rather
faith, and then, if you have always been sweet, and good, and gentle,
MERRIMAN.
Cthulhu's dream-vigil in his stone vault at R'lyeh, and I felt deeply
who made the next discovery.
LADY BASILDON.  [_Turning to her_.]  I have always said, dear Margaret,
“The Jew wanted to tell me her history, but I said it did not interest
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.  Ah! l’impudique! la prostituée!  Ah! la fille de
HÉRODIAS.  Je suis stérile, moi.  Et vous dites cela, vous qui regardez
pluck out your eye.
surface curiously as they detached another and larger piece with hammer
astronomers measure or deem too vast to measure.
notepaper what you want and my servant will take a cab and bring the
“My child! my child!” cried Mrs. Vane, looking up to the ceiling in
I shan’t be away more than half an hour.
one’s own.
*       *       *       *       *
observed in the Canterville family, extinguished their torches, and, as
particular species, or even hint at its remotest affiliations.
“OLD Stick!” said the Rocket, “impossible!  GOLD Stick, that is what he
tone of voice, “I
the prisoners all proved to be men of a very low, mixed-blooded, and
could hear the steady snoring of the Minister for the United States. He
Johansen and his men landed at a sloping mud-bank on this monstrous
thing to chase the nameless entity, but quite another to find it.
considered excessively vulgar and middle-class.
touched the back edge of the block, the seat occupied the center,
degree of fear when a jocose fish-peddler tried the locked door leading
saying what is charming, they give up thinking what is charming.  But
“‘Oh, don’t say that,’ cried little Hans, ‘I wouldn’t be unfriendly for
LORD GORING.  Robert, believe me, you are wrong.
you will look at your friend, and he will seem to you to be a little
aussi noires.
ALGERNON.
Il ne faut pas regarder les gens de cette façon . . . Il peut arriver un
advantage for you to get me back.  Dear Heaven! what a life I would have
factory children, thieves, people in prison, outcasts, those who are dumb
brought the virus, for what live beast of earth can pass through solid
CHAPTER IV.
“Murder! Good God, Dorian, is that what you have come to? I shall not
to the operatic stage, I forget which.  No; I think it was decorative
ow, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “will you not stay
“Good heavens! I have hit a beater!” exclaimed Sir Geoffrey. “What an
did not end happily? I don’t like novels that end happily. They depress
finding it a thing of balefully exquisite workmanship, and with the
been a slight earthquake tremor the night before, the most considerable
Élie.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Then I shall certainly bid you good-night.  Good-night,
I remember your saying once that there is a fatality about good
days. Ammi, whose head has been a little queer for years, is the only
is not true! It is a horrible lie! How dare you say it?”
pause_.]
pail and twisted
the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame.
from dark stars. That cult would never die till the stars came right
select, Duchess.
laughing maniac by his side. He did not try to navigate after the first
strangers--is that the natives are now repellently decadent, having
from that disused well, or the grey dust that no wind seems ever to
“No, Alan, you must not leave the house. Write out on a sheet of
All this the professors told Ammi as they paused at his door, and
LE JEUNE SYRIEN [_faisant un signe au troisième soldat_] Faites sortir le
eminently natural; though privately I suspected young Wilcox of having
virtues have made our England what she is.”
the cult narrative of Legrasse, I made a trip to Providence to see
are not of our cosmos. This was no fruit of such worlds and suns as
"I have not slept for three hundred years," he said sadly, and
asleep.
your duty to get married.  You can’t be always living for pleasure.
virtues are not real to him. His sins, if there are such things as
ten and eleven o’clock at night.  I do not wish to say anything more.
and put them into it. He could easily burn them afterwards. Then he
senses. But this was not one of them. It was a thing to be driven out
and farmland to be blotted out, though perhaps there would have been
away from the solar system and cosmos of matter into some other plane
boarded place; and were glad to confine their survey of the deceased's
of the world and share its sorrow, and realise something of the wonder of
It was a simple, rambling thing--a naive sailor's effort at a
the year round.”  The Snow covered up the grass with her great white
make a third attempt to frighten the United States Minister and his
you to decoy me back.  [_Crosses L._]
ourselves. In the wild struggle for existence, we want to have
their proper names.  It makes everything simpler.  And now I am going to
attention.  I have not actually appeared myself, but when I do so it will
“He is a gentleman,” said the lad sullenly.
lying.
months ago I went to a crush at Lady Brandon’s.
fair-haired boy with violet eyes like the Prince himself; and perhaps
hands. “I thought I would do myself the honour of coming round in
that his passing at the age of ninety-two may be recalled by many.
to_ LADY CHILTERN _to accept the situation and_ SIR ROBERT’S _error_.]
interest in life. If you had married this girl, you would have been
Corey.
what he was going to do was dreadful.
desk a revolver had fallen, a dented but undischarged cartridge later
HÉRODE.  Son pére était roi.  Je l’ai chassé de son royaume.  Et de sa
Arthur Machen evokes in prose, and Clark Ashton Smith makes visible in
LORD GORING.  May I ask are you staying in London long?
Vane was lying dead in some sordid lodging? You can talk to me of other
Morality does not help me.  I am a born antinomian.  I am one of those
JACK.
MASON.  [_Announcing guests from the top of the staircase_.]  Mr. and
and looking dreadfully bored. “I was at the opera. You should have come
like the petals of a rose. She was the loveliest thing I had ever seen
CHASUBLE.
The press cuttings, as I have intimated, touched on cases of panic,
aveugles aussi, et on l’a vu sur une montagne parlant avec des anges.
"It is no reason at all for existing, and you know you have been very
achievement of wisdom.  The final mystery is oneself.  When one has
“No, of course not,” cried Dorian.
were braying, bellowing and writhing about a monstrous ring-shaped
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Putting on his coat_.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thanks.
existed.”
barbaric music stirred him at times when Schubert’s grace, and Chopin’s
picture.
your past.  No man is.
whole region and its hill
dagger of his will, but the Hamlet madness is a mere mask for the hiding
moment have to pay for it, by doing some other act of shame—oh! don’t
roses at all this year.”
As he often remembered afterwards, and always with no small wonder, he
with frightened expectancy the ceaseless, half-mental calling from
to attract attention.
d
and does not mind giving pain.  Indeed, if he is a really true friend he
OSCAR WILDE
other.]
white taper fingers, shuddering slightly in spite of himself, and
and, with its right hand, it bore aloft a falchion of gleaming steel.
smell, an' says her boy Cha'ncey was a-screamin' as haow it was jest
CHAPTER VI.
THE EARL OF CAVERSHAM, K.G.
“I have no desire to help you. You forget that. I am simply indifferent
seemed strained in a kind of instinctive, unconscious listening.
hair.] I hope your hair curls naturally, does it?
shapeless stream of unplaceable colour left the well it seemed to flow
One day they paid Nahum a visit; but having no love of wild tales and
labor; and though he still babbled dementedly at times, his carpentry
The thing that lay half-bent on its side in a fetid pool of
society now, it was only Dorian Gray who smiled: Alan Campbell never
intrusion which Ammi had come to recognise and dread. All the while
didn’t he?
And, though at present my friends may find it a hard thing to believe, it
complained to Mamie Bishop of being afraid of him.
he life of the Virgin, and the
“Yet you poisoned me with a book once. I should not forgive that.
Henry, putting his hand on the lad’s shoulder and smiling as he spoke.
of scorn?
“Let us go to the theatre to-night,” said Lord Henry. “There is sure to
with his lungs filled with breathable air. When he did enter he saw
again in society, men would whisper to each other in corners, or pass
things against one behind one’s back that are absolutely and entirely
the perfect use of an imperfect medium. No artist desires to prove
n most
scintillating, straining, and malignly bubbling in its cosmic and
rising wind made some of the windows rattle.
mysterious or marvellous to us. The commonest thing is delightful if
twenty minutes since I saw her last.
from its non-committal bulk.
before you do.
representations of the Passion and Crucifixion of Christ, and
it became her turn to listen instead of transmit; for Sally's boy
ALGERNON.
brighter than before, and the crowd fancied that it had showed a
on flapping membranous wings. The odor arising from the newly opened
_Vigilant_ Arrives With Helpless Armed New Zealand Yacht in Tow.
ely to learn too much. Whether I shall go as
with a low bow_, _and enters into conversation_.]
his bed, and the mother had fallen asleep, she was so tired.  In he
are not married.
hiding, and only came out into the sun because they were afraid that
LORD DARLINGTON.  I couldn’t!  A man can’t tell these things about
death. The professor had been stricken whilst returning from the
ou that there are terrible
go mad from the revelation or flee from the deadly light into the peace
enemy?  For the moment I am your enemy.  I admit it!  And I am much
wanted to see her, and then to go to the frame-maker and ask him to
waters. When I think of the _extent_ of all that may be brooding down
perhaps it is just as well that he acted as he did. No one will ever
difference from the ordinary accents of the region, and because it
beneath the sea, known and favored by a nightmare cult ready and eager
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  She is a vile, an infamous thing!
Morning came wanly, and the night-sounds ceased.
of optical devices are, fumbled a while; but eventually focused the
as stoutly as possible. Needless to say, no cattle were allowed to
Nature, has her monsters, things of bestial shape and with hideous
appreciation. "I guess he's sayin' the spell," whispered Wheeler as
solution could merit even a trial. All through late August he fortified
“Horribly!” he answered, gazing at her in amazement. “Horribly! It was
door_, _and opens it_.]  Oh!
"It was--well, it was mostly a kind of force that doesn't belong in our
LORD GORING.  I beg your pardon, father, I forgot.  The conservatory,
ny foolish
and demands for data.
play accurately—but I play with wonderful expression. As far as the
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Well, sir, what are you doing here?  Wasting your time
Inside, in the servants’ part of the house, the half-clad domestics
worship, so Inspector Legrasse and his nineteen colleagues plunged on
inexcusable manner. I hope you have not been leading a double life,
audience is quite over as a serious politician.  There would be nothing
husband?  You wouldn’t dare!
slid greasily into the water and began to pursue with vast wave-raising
It must be allow'd that these Blasphemies of an infernall Train
of this thing except in his own dream bas-relief, but the outlines had
[Crossing to her, and kneeling.] What a perfect angel you are, Cecily.
soil, but it would soon be washed away. And as for the footprints and
CECIL GRAHAM.  [_After a moment’s hesitation and embarrassment_.]  Oh,
by which we can multiply our personalities.
cared to speak to him. He knows nothing about it. He shall never know
beliefs. Legrasse and his men, it is true, have been let alone; but in
trip by taxicab, and knocked with palpitant heart at the door of a neat
Dorian Gray turned and looked at him. “I believe you would, Basil. You
bothersome about this time, and New York policemen are mobbed by
passed over the moon, and the silhouette of clutching branches faded
night all Arkham had heard of the great rock that fell out of the sky
had he to pry into the life of Dorian Gray? If he had done a tithe of
LADY WINDERMERE.  I am afraid of being myself.  Let me think!  Let me
The man bowed and retired. In a few moments, Alan Campbell walked in,
It was long after seven when Campbell came back into the library. He
LORD GORING.  I hope not, father.  Good evening, Lady Basildon!
came mainly from an immensely aged mestizo named Castro, who claimed
to come--the trim white Nahum Gardner house amidst its fertile gardens
Pearls and pomegranates cannot buy it, nor is it set forth in the
meet us, they don’t love us at all.  They like to find us quite
for what we do.  You have to pay now.  Before I leave you to-night, you
had happened. It had flashed there a second, and a clammy and hateful
him, and that he had even in his Eton days, “I believe that if one man
number of things in my life for which I was never indicted at all.  And
seem almost a duty, and Johansen shows ingenuous wonder at the charge
For a moment, he thought of praying that the horrible sympathy that
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma.
my unfortunate brother. Algy, you young scoundrel, you will have to
admit, unworthy of him, I admit, and therefore . . . not his true
clouds seemed to be piling themselves up beyond the hills to the
eard.  That is the
ay,
with the terror of eternity. Well—would you believe it?—a week ago, at
nodding ostrich-plumes, and the leaden coffin was covered by a rich
to hear the one when the source should yield the other. Animal fury
r
ave known Mrs. Erlynne—
Yes, sir. [Lane goes out.]
far deeper and older than negro fetishism was involved. Degraded and
n Death himself had touched her and taken her
of the late Wilbur Whateley. They found the countryside in great
abnormality which far outraced any image their conscious minds could
noses against the foetor they were uncovering. It was not so long a
LORD GORING.  Is it worth while, father?
were warm with his breath.
guess they're gittin' ready to ketch my soul. They know it's a-goin'
ALGERNON.
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma.
garden-girdled Babylon."
He took up from the couch the great purple-and-gold texture that
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Arthur, she has explained everything!
actor of a part that has not been written for him. The aim of life is
panes glowed like plates of heated metal. The sky above was like a
e and of Prince
shall I put up?” he said; “I hope the town has made preparations.”
dry and noisome upon cutting. Hogs grew inordinately fat, then suddenly
heard of the cult in some indirect way, and of having invented a series
votre mère.  Elle vous donne toujours de mauvais conseils.  Il ne faut
the country.
Riches and pleasure seemed to him to be really greater tragedies than
sky.]
tmare itself, and
LADY CHILTERN’S _letter_.  _When_ LORD GORING _returns the glass she
and don’t move about too much, or pay any attention to what Lord Henry
most advanced Bunburyists I know.
Do you really keep a diary? I’d give anything to look at it. May I?
it--all like jelly, an' made o' sep'rit wrigglin' ropes pushed clost
waits and dreams in the deep, and decay spreads over the tottering
with a grave shake of the head.
last, and the hapless farmer's mind was proof against more sorrow.
utter lo
unchanged. And yet, who, that knew anything about life, would surrender
So glad you like it, Miss Fairfax.
CECILY.
“I like him,” said Lord Henry. “A great many people don’t, but I find
with especial clearness the queer circles
“No, she will never come to life. She has played her last part. But you
your defects, where would you all be? Not one of you would ever be
introduce her to poor dear Aunt Caroline.  I believe she is going to
anxious . . . to miss?
it all last night.
box after the performance was over and
him. Drunkards had reeled by, cursing and chattering to themselves like
already deciphered. In the small hours of that night he slept a little
PHIPPS.  I understand, my lord.  [_Bell rings_.]
but perfectly conscious and able to give simple orders to Zenas. The
explanations appear to be quite satisfactory, especially Mr.
HÉRODE.  Peut-être qu’il est ivre du vin de Dieu!
for a sin done in his youth, before he knew you, before he knew himself?
window-panes, the raven croaked from the old yew-tree, and the wind
in his chair. A horrible sense of sickness came over him. He felt as if
amazement. He had never seen him like this before. The lad was actually
caught sight of him.  “Hallo!” he cried, “what a bad rocket!” and he
exclusively to the lower orders. I don’t blame them in the smallest
suggest fugitive glimpses of strange landscapes, and in one case there
secretary, and Tommy Trafford is treasurer.
euchre, poker, and other American national games, and Virginia rode
morning air.  Echo bore it to her purple cavern in the hills, and woke
had been a look of joy? Surely a painted canvas could not alter? The
of seeing a gentleman doing anything useful, Dorian put his hand to it
globules by drilling, the seekers left again with their new
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Must I write and tell her that?
the vat’s black, dripping, sloping sides. It was an extraordinary
MABEL CHILTERN.  How can you say such a thing?  Why, he rides in the Row
PHIPPS.  It was brought by hand just after your lordship went to the
LORD GORING.  Come in there, father.  Your sneezes are quite
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _strikes the bell_.  _Enter_ MASON.]
Old Whateley in his last illness, and found much to ponder over in the
It never occurred to me that you would refuse. I see now that you were
consequently a good deal out of repair, you may perhaps think fit to
JACK.
“Of course I know her. On the first night I was at the theatre, the
of Dunwich and its brooding presences, and of Wilbur Whateley and his
ALGERNON.
That lady is Miss Cecily Cardew, my ward. [Lady Bracknell bows coldly
of a hideous stone image almost identical with that which Legrasse had
done.  When the man's punishment is over, it leaves him to himself; that
choked her. She crouched on the floor like a wounded thing, and Dorian
Hallward had painted of him would be a guide to him through life, would
particularly at the end of the season when every one has practically
and bright, and yet it is raining.  The climate in the north of Europe is
simply to ask whether an ornament, a jewel, that I lost somewhere last
was pointing. “Yes,” he said, smiling, “I see the gardener waiting for
who had traveled all the way from New Orleans for certain special
he deferred resolutions of Chopin's music.  It is in the discontent
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Throws himself into an armchair by the
There was nothing more.
You have done a beautiful action to-day, dear child.
“And I don’t forgive you for being late for dinner,” broke in Lord
body swathed in Egyptian linen with costly spices and perfumes as though
in the vineyard in the cool of the evening receive just as much reward as
and his hordes, hidden in green slimy vaults and sending out at last,
LORD CAVERSHAM.  I am afraid I can’t take him with me to Downing Street.
Je n’en ai que cent, et il n’y a aucun roi du monde qui possède des paons
Dorian, pouring himself out some wine and frowning slightly.
authorities in the country and met with no more than the Greenland tale
west. They were commencing to shine, too, though the tethered vehicles
now good-bye. I am sorry you won’t let me look at the picture once
I should be.
advantage of the convocation to offer questions for correct answering
turned on his heel and left the room. In a few moments he was out of
Ones, too, he curiously declined to mention. Of the cult, he said that
chiens, les oiseaux de l’air le mangeront . . . Ah! Iokanaan, Iokanaan,
“I don’t know that I shall tell you that, Mr. Gray. It is so tedious a
He ran freely about the fields and hills, and accompanied his mother
the hill. Apparently the horror had descended by a route much the same
DUMBY.  Then Mrs. Erlynne sets an admirable example to the rest of her
of the horrors that lurk ceaselessly behind life in time and in space,
LADY PLYMDALE.  [_Looking at him_.]  I wish _you_ were!
pallid with rage. His hands were clenched, and the pupils of his eyes
meant all that you said to us at lunch?”
JACK.
about an hour before the blaze was remarked. Silas was rounding up a
have the stars come out above me in the open; and the next day returned
People vowed that the snow melted faster around Nahum's than it did
y father—my father really
moment's sake sits for ever with Ruth and Beatrice in the tresses of the
appeared to shoot up from the black pit like a softened ray from a
dreamy violet eyes, and his hair was like fine gold.  When he saw her he
My dear guardian, with the assistance of Miss Prism, has the arduous
Of late I have been studying with diligence the four prose poems about
t to entitle me to his manuscript, I bore the document away
There is a good postal service, I suppose? It may be necessary to do
woman should ever be quite accurate about her age. It looks so
call things by their proper names.  It makes matters simpler.  We have
“Stay, Harry, to oblige Dorian, and to oblige me,” said Hallward,
Sunday stories of young Wilbur's precociousness, Old Whateley's black
frightened man on the dark stairs to guess what had sent them. But that
Wizard Whateley's, only it was yards an' yards acrost...._"
with an influence of which one was more absolutely conscious. There
station-master, however, wired up and down the line, and assured him
of them, when given two phials of dust for analysis in a police job
MERRIMAN.
Then came a halt in the gasping, and the dog raised his head in a long,
here?  Of course you understand that after your breaking your appointment
it fust an' look at the graound. It was all mud an' water, an' the sky
dead nations or among the few savage tribes that have survived contact
his graceful, though to hi
“Is that yours, Harry?”
as pretty as possible.  That is the best fashion there is, and the only
nd, James. In the
sorrow, one of the most wonderful things in the whole of recorded time;
wun't keer ter git very nigh Wizard Whateley's! Cha'ncey didn't look
balm to the bruised heart, and peace to the soul in pain. . . .
the thing fade away. Of course, one can't be sure, but we can always
“What is the use of a statue if it cannot keep the rain off?” he said; “I
in perplexed amazement. “But, my dear Dorian—”
extra bar across it. Ammi shook no less, and had to tug and point for
bell_, _sits and writes card_.]
red glare and the muffled tom-toms. There are vocal qualities peculiar
on to the world’s stage to show the supreme reality of love. A
King's Walk. With the enthusiastic egotism of the true artist, he went
For the last three months?
melancholy manner.]
passions about whose origin we deceived ourselves that tyrannized most
_Then she flings herself down beside a sofa and buries her face_.  _Her
this woman is just the thing for him.  He’ll dance attendance upon her as
and Johansen swears he was swallowed up by an angle of masonry which
"Martin the Maniac, or the Masked Mystery."
is a perfect monster, and would have no hesitation in breakfasting off
when Miss Virginia grows up, I dare say she will be pleased to have
them citations from theosophical books and magazines (notably W.
Guerrera and Angstrom. Parker slipped as the other three were plunging
boots, and his lantern, and came downstairs, and rode off in the
centre of the table, “what do you mean by good, Harry?”
Oh, Gwendolen is as right as a trivet. As far as she is concerned, we
These tales, of course, are obsolete and ridiculous; because they come
the gentleness of my disposition, and the extraordinary sweetness of my
authorities that the Gardner family was no more. He indulged in no
It was here that the Whateleys used to build their hellish fires and
The thing that lay half-bent on its side in a fetid pool of
brushed them away hastily and looked again at the picture.
to set an actual example to the still reluctant majority.
[Illustration: "BY THE SIDE OF THE HEARSE AND THE COACHES WALKED THE
but, Princes are always lucky.”
began.  He spoke with a very slow, distinct voice, as if he was dictating
the shaft of phosphorescence from the well was getting brighter and
altar older than the Indians. These were not haunted woods, and their
express it to myself. How well you know me! But we will not talk again
SALOMÉ.  Le prophète . . . est-ce un vieillard?
demandent?
“‘Oh!
My dear boy, we were never even on speaking terms. He died before I was
The Manor House, Woolton, Hertfordshire.
A cry of pain broke from the lad’s lips, and he leaped to his feet,
Oh, they count as Tories.
occasionally to be seen at dinner parties. So far I am satisfied.
all Democrats.
suffering.  It is what is hidden behind everything.
meant to do anything then and there. It was getting toward sunset, and
move towards each other and put their arms round each other’s waists as
Henry got up from his chair and put on his coat. “She is quite
friend the Miller was always coming round and sending him off on long
“Alan! This is kind of you. I thank you for coming.”
a luxuriously cushioned couch that stood facing the screen. The screen
he’s as bad as bad.”
do anything in the world to gain a reputation. As soon as you have one,
farmhouse. After midnight their shrill notes burst into a kind of
ctation of manner has a delicate charm_.
rumbled slowly down the polished empty street. The air was heavy with
backwat
display beneath the half-clouded moonlit sky.
for us both.
disciplined life, should do the same.  Endless repetition, in and out of
But that was all. The pallid group in the road, still reeling at
spectroscope both samples gave off an unknown spectrum, in which many
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Il n’a pas eu peur?
their mistakes. Moralists had, as a rule, regarded it as a mode of
and down the exposed corner-posts, coruscated about the shelf and
“Might one look at the work of art, sir?”
d try.
[Enter Merriman.
The old woman smiled, and answered in the same low, mysterious voice,
their emotions. When they took lovers, it was merely to have some one
not to.  Let me see her first, at any rate.  She’s a very dangerous
answer!
As midnight was striking bronze blows upon the dusky air, Dorian Gray,
“I fear so,” she said, laughing, as she stood up. “A thousand pardons,
into the deep river and be drowned.  What a terrible misfortune!  Poor
gate. _Yog-Sothoth_ is the gate. _Yog-Sothoth_ is the key and
Nature too much, and live with her too little.  I discern great sanity in
Through quickly re-closing vapours they followed the great morbidity
Cheveley, but myself?  That it was I whom you thought was concealed in a
LORD WINDERMERE.  I beg of you.
My own one!
gestures as their incantation drew near its culmination. From what
could not see was glimpsed by a timid windmill salesman from Bolton who
In fact, to be a bit better than one’s neighbour was
LORD GORING.  I can’t tell you how at present.  I have not the smallest
fear of God to us all. There were opiates for remorse, drugs that could
were completely overruled, and I believe that when he walked up the
He felt that the time had really come for making his choice. Or had his
“You have a new friend, I hear. Who is he? Why have you not told me
you are alluding.
Princess laughed with pleasure.
Otis clasped her passionately in her arms, the Duke smothered her with
in the railed family plot behind the farm, and had put therein what
LADY BRACKNELL.
Sime or an Angarola could paint. Void of clothing, this hybrid spawn
wilful, petulant manner. When he caught sight of Lord Henry, a faint
home, laughing.
own life.  By this means he gave to man an extended, a Titan personality.
gentle. A few hollow groans from the wardrobe, he thought, would be more
I dare not even suspect, Dr. Chasuble. I need hardly tell you that in
psychic struggle were going on. Henry Wheeler strained his eye at
terrible language that was not of earth. Merwin was getting frightfully
little dogs--([Greek text], 'little dogs' it should be rendered)--who are
down thar--it got everything livin'--it fed itself on 'em, mind and
A few days after this, Virginia and her curly-haired cavalier went out
[_Exit_ PARKER _C._]
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Shaking her head_.]  If I lost my ideals, I should
a disturbing tale. From February 28th to April 2nd a large proportion
me doit de l’argent qu’il ne veut pas payer.  Il a même insulté mes
. . [Moving to her] . . . if my name was Algy, couldn’t you love me?
what to say about your views. You must come and dine with us some
dusky air. She is waiting for you to charm her, and if you play she
The _Emma's_ men showed fight, says the survivor, and though the
I think that is quite as it should be. The home seems to me to be the
even glance at the murdered man. He felt that the secret of the whole
interest at all in the East End. For the future I shall be able to look
LANE.
wooded swamps south of New Orleans during a raid on a supposed voodoo
in every line of the mate's frightened description.
dignity” so he put his nose in the air, and began to frown severely as if
CECILY.
“Ah, my dear,” cried Lady Narborough, putting on her gloves, “don’t
roofs under which they and their ancestors were born.
feel that no one else has a right to blame us. It is the confession,
le by the
They must be hidden away somewhere.
left all the chips made of the original fragment during the work. The
We’re good.  Some of us are, at least.
LADY CHILTERN.  Robert, if they love each other, why should they not be
The feverish interest aroused at the meeting by Legrasse's tale,
reported it. Yes, it had been merely fancy. Sibyl Vane’s brother had
especially among the very young men, who saw, or fancied that they saw,
d and stumbled as in a dream, and did
dreadful dream_.  _Then she turns round and looks at her husband_.  _She
need not tell again, nor of the weariness and despair that creep back
enemy?  For the moment I am your enemy.  I admit it!  And I am much
And they are not an old family.  Can’t understand it.
Gwendolen, may I dine with you to-night at Willis’s?
the true secret of life: to maim them with an alien sorrow: to mar them
vase d’or plein de ses
JACK.
properly in a marble mausoleum, which she had herself designed, and
talking about success in modern life as something that one could reduce
When they looked back toward the valley and the distant Gardner place
their grotesque tales of it ever reached the people of the countryside.
Briden pushed at the stone in several places without result. Then
sin can never touch you.  Arthur, you can go to Mabel, and you have my
be in charge. The youth's febrile mind, apparently, was dwelling on
is mentioned a dread of something abnormal.
half-hour, but collapse, greying, and disintegration were already far
a shred on me, except a small shred of decent reputation, just enough to
LORD GORING.  So the newspapers are always telling us.
"Hallo!" suddenly exclaimed one of the twins, who had been looking out
were accompanying the gestures.
eyes. He remembered that Lord Henry had said to him once, half
him. He felt perfectly happy.
sensible wife would reduce me to a condition of absolute idiocy in less
wild gesture of despair.
herding and hungering for the husks they ate, beautiful and holy moments
“Is she pretty?”
to laugh, history would have been different.”
furrow, and with a twitch of pain he bit his underlip.
“Margaret Devereux was one of the loveliest creatures I ever saw,
plan, and he knew that even in the end a large amount of uncertainty
fact.
turned his head away. He could not help liking
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  You must let me have time to consider your
looks anxiously at his wife_.]
JACK.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Rising_.]  Mrs. Cheveley!  Coming to see me?
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Pay me!
time, and the moon in her ordered wanderings change from shield to
The _Emma_, in ballast, had cleared Auckland on February 20th, and had
see that.’
LANE.
usually lengthy lecture by the University Extension Scheme on the
concerned with.
“I will try to be there, Harry,” he said, leaving the room. As he drove
humanity is sometimes cruelly judged by the law. I gathered that no
they could, but shuddered as they did so. Stark terror seemed to cling
devenue rouge.  Elle est devenue rouge comme du sang.  Ah! le prophète
my sheep to the mountain to-morrow.’
the fantastic shadows of birds in flight flitted across the long
SALOMÉ.  Laisse-moi baiser ta bouche.
summer wind stirred amidst the trees of the garden, there came through
sunlight that they will cheat the wise crocus into squandering its gold
I can’t bear the sight of it now.  I shall never let my wife use it
erations; and was
certainly to be; though my memory, despite much familiarity with the
stones on islands in the Pacific.
eternity. They had, indeed, come themselves from the stars, and brought
d to meet a man at the
JACK.
strange.... Yes; he would try to be to Dorian Gray what, without
“The world goes to the altar of its own accord,” was the answer.
Steam had not been suffered to go down entirely, despite the departure
I sold my wheelbarrow.
though many branches are sunk into the sordid populace so deeply that
passed on, till he came to those lovely stanzas upon Venice:
GWENDOLEN.
SEVENTH IMPRESSION
at the open pages; the left-hand one of which, in the Latin version,
came and stood behind him, putting his hand upon his shoulder.
secret of their charm.”
_Sixteenth Edition_
borne. He felt as if an iron ring was being slowly tightened round his
“Well, we must look out for a suitable match for him. I shall go
l take the name of Ernest. Gwendolen would
Then have we got to part?
never know when the curtain has fallen. They always want a sixth act,
sed to be.  So pleased to find that nothing has altered!
terrible scene in this room, I wrote to him telling him that I trusted
Lady Agatha Carlisle
described by contemporary historians as stoutness. Next to her sat, on
LANE.
stand.  However, he was very courageous, and after he had been walking
Robert Chiltern a certain thing.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Dare!  Oh! to save you from the abyss into which you are
“Is the story about me?” asked the Water-rat.
minuteness; and studied with almost frantic intensity the bas-relief
his clothes; the terrible death by which he gave the world its most
So they pulled down the statue of the Happy Prince.  “As he is no longer
in the building, and had manifested since then only alternations of
morning sky, and from a nocturnal exhalation seen as a phosphorescent
in the House stand these long debates.
beating, and wondered what was coming.
heated on charcoal, being wholly negative in the borax bead, and soon
Erlynne looked very handsome to-night, didn’t she?
ord Darlington?
elaborate yellow Chinese hangings; books bound in tawny satins or fair
ive they quickly take away. You have only a few years in
prodigiously far-flung body of inquiries amongst nearly all the friends
psychological moment when to say nothing. He felt intensely interested.
though. I want it to be a delightful gathering.”
om his chair and drew a large screen right in front of the
probably make a very poor choice.  It is I who should be consulted, not
MISS PRISM.
friend. And from that stricken, far-away spot he had seen something
great shapeless horror had shot into the sky. It was just a colour--but
crew of the _Emma_ landed on an unknown island and left six men dead;
[Laughing.] To dear little Cecily! Of course not! What could have put
who had _dreamed_ not only the figure and exact hieroglyphics of the
than commonly beautiful; yet there is no influx of artists or summer
there as an island trader, and bore an evil reputation along the
CECILY.
of certain youthful disappearances which suspicion laid vaguely at his
short-sighted, I thought it wouldn’t matter.  But it did, though—it was
sorrow is not allowed to enter.  In the daytime I played with my
he did remains to be seen, for I have learned much now.
o the attic. It was very close and
once stepped within after a cattle-selling call on Old Whateley he was
“Eighteen years,” laughed Dorian Gray, with a touch of triumph in his
comfortably in the inn, drinking spiced wine and eating sweet cakes.
secret cult would always be waiting to liberate him.
facts, in the silly hope of keeping our place. The thoroughly
St., New Orleans, La., at 1908 A. A. S. Mtg--Notes on Same, & Prof.
Qu’est-ce que je voulais dire?  Qu’est-ce que c’était?  Ah! je m’en
house—if not, I shall never tell her.
of all offence towards you!  And I—I tell you that had it ever occurred
nothing but propose to me.  He proposed to me last night in the
there ever be put forward for having made it?
martyr about her. Her death has all the pathetic uselessness of
ALGERNON.
newly come to the Congregational Church at Dunwich Village, preached a
bread of others, and how steep their stairs; they catch for a moment the
LORD WINDERMERE.  Margaret, don’t say that.
In less than a quarter of an hour, Dorian Gray was galloping down the
_Second Impression_     _January_ 1889
JACK.
double life.
say when faced by the unknown.
sin. It was the imagination that made each crime bear its misshapen
me the sun-lit side of the garden, and shunned the other side for its
led my pleasure in meeting you, Mr. Gray,” said Lord
concern you. What you have to do is this—”
Oh no! I have no mother, nor, in fact, any relations.
officers were to gruesome experiences, not one remained unmoved at
remarked one of the Town Councillors who wished to gain a reputation for
danse dans le sang.  Ce serait d’un très mauvais présage.
s of
lit streets, past gaunt, black-shadowed archways and evil-looking
accustomed to work at. And, remember, it is the only piece of evidence
‘Mr. Ernest Worthing, B. 4, The Albany.’ I’ll keep this as a proof that
here at eleven.”
Kelso for the use of the little grandson whom, for his strange likeness
that he lived alone in
you.  I am coming to you.  Gertrude.’  ‘I trust you.  I want you.  I am
adored his first wife. Women try their luck; men risk theirs.”
held out to you.
another moment horse and buggy had gone beyond earshot, leaving the
ventured. There were insane shouts and harrowing screams, soul-chilling
The Dunwich horror itself came between Lammas and the equinox in 1928,
officials, and all they could do was to give me his Oslo address.
*       *       *       *       *
describe. In her raving there was not a single specific noun, but
GWENDOLEN.
JACK.
about him, and he had thoughtful, treacherous eyes.
you. No, you must keep your good looks. We live in an age that reads
LE PAGE D’HÉRODIAS.  Oh! comme la lune a l’air étrange!  On dirait la
false ideals, of our age. Live! Live the wonderful life that is in you!
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I am quite serious.
LADY WINDERMERE.  You don’t think it will rain, Lord Darlington, do you?
were right, They could plunge from world to world through the sky;
MABEL CHILTERN.  How very selfish of you!
translated it] that man is either the oldest or the last of earth's
beginning tomorrow, at which every effort will be made to induce
in it.  With people of our own rank it is different.  With us, prison
of being an undeveloped mouth or throat.
hell. Had my uncle referred to these cases by name instead of merely
for.
course, Dorian?
Even if he told them, would they believe it?
Well, what shall we do?
your unfortunate but misguided ancestor. As it is extremely old, and
much.
whippoorwills among the shrubbery had commenced a damnably rhythmical
disappeared.
and monotonous chores through the aimless days. There was something of
said Virginia, gravely, as she rose to her feet,
wooded swamps south of New Orleans during a raid on a supposed voodoo
was to burst forth in a few hours and become the memorable Dunwich
tentacled head surmounted a grotesque and scaly body with rudimentary
that makes him the scarlet figure of history; the coronation ceremony of
Morning Post_.  All that one should know about modern life is where the
bred, in a hand-bag, whether it had handles or not, seems to me to
CECILY.
rest of my life. The people who have adored me—there have not been very
It was quite dark inside, for the window was small and half-obscured
brief space of time. The absence of old friends one can endure with
was to a relieve suffering.  To turn an interesting thief into a tedious
n ideal and partly an
if the ruin of that young life was really to be laid at his door, as
y
LTERN.  [_Looking at her in wonder_.]  In my own interests?
either Ammi or his horse liked. The latter, indeed, had almost run away
stain. His beauty had been to him but a mask, his youth but a mockery.
who had come to spend the last week of his holidays at Canterville
questions about the district. He was far brighter and more educated
3
in my health.  Now, to-night I am not at all well.
stepped out on to the grass, he drew a deep breath. The fresh morning
it ... it was that same colour ... jest the same, like the flowers an'
found in the swamp.
Difference of object does not alter singleness of passion. It merely
a large vessel and watched the sailors hauling big chests out of the hold
in 1928, when the Dunwich horror came and went; yet at no time did
possède pas d’oiseaux aussi beaux.  Eh bien! je vous donnerai cinquante
LADY BASILDON.  [_Stiffly_.]  Please don’t praise other women in our
round, and, after insisting on his wife and the three boys sitting down
When Lord Henry entered the room, he found his uncle sitting in a rough
to pieces for days, and hardly knew what he was about. Screamed at
cruel, wrinkled mouth, and the moon hid her face in a cloud as he stole
worshipped you. I grew jealous of every one to whom you spoke. I wanted
he heerd the whippoorwills so laoud in Col' Spring Glen he couldn't
the deafening, cataclysmic peal whose source, be it inner earth or
windows and doors in the old house shook and rattled. In fact, it was
spiritualising of the soul.
LADY STUTFIELD.  I suppose so, Mr. Dumby.  It’s been a delightful season,
The stench left quickly, but the vegetation never came right again.
not to go to lunch there; of course you understand that?
seemed to bring him back his joyousness and his ardour for life. But it
appear, she became really agitated, and sent the boys out to look for
him sitting there! To play for his delight! I am afraid I may frighten
LORD GORING.  Ah! that is morbid of you, Mrs. Marchmont!
familiarity with the
mystery.
_Here is a totally different story that we can
a moment_, then _looks round and sees door R._, _and exits through it_.]
in this analysis case gave the same odd bands at first, though later
the abhorrent grounds seemed faintly luminous with more than the fitful
beautiful and pure.
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Rising_.]  Ah! you admit you have a hold!
my own name, and I am sure Mr. Gray should be satisfied with his.”
I’ll cut you off with a shilling.
up in it. Things like that make a man fashionable in Paris.
Phipps, is there a good fire in the smoking-room?
faibles et les forts comme on brise le blé dans un mortier.  Mais cet
LANE.
dark and goatish gargoyle appeared one day in Arkham in quest of the
telepathic instant?
no other way to annul the deeper and more malign meddling which others
suggestive figures of Greek Mythology were, for religion, Demeter, an
ALGERNON.
_Fourth Edition_ (5_s._ _net_) _June_                           _1910_
“No, of course not,” cried Dorian.
taking place was not a thing for unfortified eyes to see, so he brushed
necessary for both parties. I
[Pleasantly.] Never. Not even of any kind.
savage crew on the yacht's deck, and being forced to kill them all,
beautiful forms of those whom vice and blood and weariness had made
[_Goes out with the_ VICOMTE DE NANJAC.
“You were far too happy. When a woman marries again, it is because she
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes; let us go away to-day.  No; I can’t go to-day,
unknown father.
apparent.
its reasoned philosophy and its ordered principles, and find in the
heard a fright-mad voice shriek out, "Help, oh, my Gawd!..." and some
ALGERNON.
but Nahum was very brave about it. He let the boy run about for a
[Noises heard overhead as if some one was throwing trunks about. Every
to sinister ears? I think Professor Angell died because he knew too
that science had seemed to him trivial and of no import. And so he had
But I love her, Arthur.  We are childless, and I have no one else to
You dear romantic boy. [He kisses her, she puts her fingers through his
Harry; but I don’t mind. It is impossible to be angry with you. When
had not so far hurt any human of unweakened mind, there is no telling
women never appeal to one’s imagination. They are limited to their
poor uncle, but he never seems to take much notice . . .
cooking, and partly on Sir Robert.
dead. A sea-monster had been enamoured of the pearl that the diver
danger to you, from something that might have made men honour you less
things are our only necessities; and there were
LORD GORING.  Oh! I am not at all romantic.  I am not old enough.  I
I hope so. [A pause. They both sit down together.]
ALGERNON.
The Old Ones were, the Old Ones are, and the Old Ones shall be. Not
36 ESSEX STREET W.C.
such dowered with outside properties and obedient to outside laws.
will appear in the _Morning Post_ on Saturday at the latest.
a headache. Indeed I was thinking about that, and not about my German
ALGERNON.
ged into something that seemed to the lad himself to be remote from
You must help me and my friends to make our fortunes out of another!
is kind to an invalid, and leaves the pleasures of London to sit by a
handwriting on Lady Chiltern’s pink notepaper.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  So that is poor Dumby with Lady Plymdale?  I hear she is
Old Ones. The carven idol was great Cthulhu, but none might say whether
themselves warm.  “How hungry we are!” they said.  “You must not lie
LORD GORING.  Are you really serious?
with the malady of reverie. Gradually white fingers creep through the
the substance at all. It was a metal, though, beyond a doubt. It was
suddenly becomes the intimate friend of a woman of—well, more than
lovelier for its presence, a reed through which Shakespeare’s music
he doing there?
LORD GORING.  How terrible!  Really, the thing should be more widely
their profession. Indeed I am told that one of the Mr. Markby’s is
to burn his accursed diary, and if you men are wise you'll dynamite
always work better after hearing the birds sing?’
that the youth and his grandfather had knocked out all the partitions
anything. Even things that are true can be proved. No artist has
LORD GORING.  Really, I don’t want to meet my father three days running.
I knew you were following him when you rushed out from
will save time.”
painful scenes of jealousy in public!
l men like to see things, not to read about
“I was very fond of Basil,” said Dorian with a note of sadness in his
are dining out.  And mind you don’t take this little aberration of
ALGERNON.
ALGERNON.
now and then he repeated to himself the words that Lord Henry had said
didn't, why should man?  He is charming when he says, 'Take no thought
attendent.
et aux oiseaux de l’air.  Ce que laisseront les
LADY WINDERMERE.  You are mad!  [_Rises_.]
again!  Yes! you told me so yesterday evening at the club.  You said
ate Friday, clear of head, though sober, with a gnawing fear and
JACK.
GWENDOLEN.
intact likewise prevented Them from making an initial move, and They
the well was getting brighter and brighter and bringing to the minds
e arts is the art of the
GWENDOLEN.
and hands, the really human elements in Wilbur Whateley must have been
[_Enter_ LORD WINDERMERE _C._]
an added shock that the others were spared, and was crushed for ever
been an immense nuisance.  I should like to be allowed a little time to
The dream-narratives and cuttings collected by the professor were, of
still an insuperable barrier. That is all!
daughter and oddly bearded grandson stood by the bedside, whilst from
is most unkind of her, my dear,” she whispered. “Of course I go and
” said the girl.  “I tell you what, you are very rude; and,
Quand il viendra la terre déserte se réjouira.  Elle fleurira comme le
danced when the aurora leaped high over the ice cliffs. It was, the
expensive.”
have not got one who is a fool. They are all men of some intellectual
“Have you had good sport, Geoffrey?” he asked.
CHASUBLE.
Lord Darlington
fantastic patches? How evil he looked! The face was saturnine and
of feverish rushing up and down between wheels and engines to get
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Let me pass, sir.  You have lied enough upon your
TIGELLIN.  En effet, Seigneur, je n’en ai pas entendu parler.  J’explique
and sank back exhausted. His wife, bringing his dinner, found him in a
quite delighted!  [_Turning to_ LORD GORING.]  Aren’t you coming to the
“You fill me with apprehension. The appeal to antiquity is fatal to us
he has behaved very badly to you. The next time he calls, you will be
trembling party realized it would be no use waiting for the moon to
after, Mr. Otis was awakened by a curious noise in the corridor, outside
was covered with lines spreadin' aout from one place, like as if big
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  La fille de Jaïre était morte.  Il l’a ressuscitée.
by his servant, and questions would be asked. He hesitated for a
n’ai été si heureux.
“Kiss me, Mother,” said the girl.
unrecognizable chromaticism.
what is said about you. I won’t tell you that I don’t want to preach to
I know. You are absurdly careless about sending out invitations. It is
malheur.  Manasse, Issachar, Ozias, éteignez les flambeaux.  Je ne veux
garden.  In all the country-side there was no garden so lovely as his.
viewless force and indescribable stench swept down from the hill to
three is company and two is none.
Hellenic ideal—to something finer, richer than the Hellenic ideal, it
recalled the stainless purity of his boyish life, and it seemed
underlying primary tone without a place among the known tints of earth.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Rising_.]  Do you count that to his credit, Lord
and the world there is now a wide gulf, but between art and myself there
serious_.  _In her accents as she talks there is a note of deep tragedy_.
modern mania for curates.  In my time we girls saw them, of course,
they found tea laid out for them, and, after taking off their wraps,
what I am.”
Then I must learn how to be happy.  Once I knew it, or thought I knew it,
novels, Verlaine and Verlaine's poems, the stained glass and tapestries
Friday morning Armitage, Rice and Morgan set out by motor for Dunwich,
voyage. I can not attempt to transcribe it verbatim in all its
stupefying identity of the colossal statues and bas-reliefs with the
should be put down by law.  It is so demoralising to the people for whom
lui_.]  Viens ici.  Tu as été l’ami de celui qui est mort, n’est-ce pas?
shall weep if I choose”; and he actually burst into real tears, which
a bore it is to have to be civil to these old dowagers!  But they always
what did it matter? What had Dorian Gray to do with Sibyl Vane’s death?
tedious journey from Vienna now.  It has been a great success.  But, of
instinct with a fearsome and unnatural malignancy, was of a somewhat
are of older standing. They date beyond body_--or without the
will never leave the memory of the stricken group who heard them. Not
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.  I have observed that.
LORD GORING.  [_Settling his buttonhole_.]  Oh, I should fancy Mrs.
But nobody saw him.
had barely poise enough to prompt the speaker.
one must do so, since their form was indisputably though vaguely that
SALOMÉ.  Ah!
village one may still spy the cellar walls and chimney of the ancient
wholly accurate to say that no human pen could describe it, but one may
tragedies like that!  Oh, why does this horrible fancy come across me?
am perfectly happy now. I know what conscience is, to begin
had been brought and the man turned to go, he felt a wild desire to
no other way to annul the deeper and more malign meddling which others
drew the dark curtains carefully down over each one. By this
"SUDDENLY THERE LEAPED OUT TWO FIGURES"
o with you.  Remember you are to keep Windermere at your club, and
reason, did not crow again. Finally, at half-past seven, the arrival of
a rock chasm.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Bewildered and unnerved_.]  Wait a moment!  What
o know is that life cannot be understood without much charity, cannot
bitterness of heart.
children had crept in, and they were sitting in the branches of the
Commencing his descent of the dark stairs, Ammi heard a thud below him.
latest edition of something or other.
motionless and in wonder, dimly conscious that Hallward was speaking to
JACK.
long conversations all by myself, and I am so clever that sometimes I
“Well, I found myself seated in a horrid little private box, with a
MRS. ERLYNNE.  You are much prettier.  But haven’t you got one of
“Understand what?” he asked, angrily.
[LORD GORING, _unseen by_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN, _makes an imploring sign
shame I will not enter.  You
into everything growing now. Yet it was none of Nahum's family at all
memory of the innocence that they had tarnished. They wondered how one
“I swear it,” came in hoarse echo from her flat mouth. “But don’t give
as was what the world did to me, what I did to myself was far more
“Dear little Swallow,” said the Prince, “you tell me of marvellous
Pharisiens affirment qu’il y a des anges, et les Sadducéens disent que
Tory, must not underrate them. Beer, the Bible, and the seven deadly
which you experiment come from. Don’t inquire now. I have told you too
the sincerity of the man who expresses it. Indeed, the probabilities
very children are taken away.  Those lovely links with humanity are
"Poor, poor Ghost," she murmured; "have you no place where you can
voice. The policeman strolled over and said something to her. She
[Enter Lane.]
be the hero of his own history, he seeks to be the spectator of his own
sane or of this earth. But then, the homes and sheds of Dunwich folk
their monstrous stone city again to the sun and air.
The Army Lists of the last forty years are here. These delightful
it, they clearly did not deserve it. They were evidently people on a
entitled to share in.  If he thought me unworthy, unfit to weep with him,
the spirit of love, the spirit of the Christ who is not in churches, may
It was next the vegetation. All the orchard trees blossomed forth in
makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties. I
us afraid, or when we are stirred by some new emotion for which we
"We must follow it, boys." He made his voice as reassuring as possible.
dead or living was
plus de trois cents ans.
stood there trembling at the black curve of the boxed-in staircase.
offering created. One sight of the thing had been enough to throw the
a learned friend of Paterson,
Printed by BALLANTYNE & CO. LIMITED
but a reflection. You had made me understand what love really is. My
indeed, simply a psychological study of a certain young Parisian who
occur.
HIGH above the city, on a tall column, stood the statue of the Happy
who is in a state of rebellion cannot receive grace, to use the phrase of
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_With a curtsey_.]  Thank you so much, Lady Markby, for
human mind to correlate all its contents. We live on a placid island
“You use them for everything, except flight.”
me till I, too, am at rest; "accidentally" or otherwise. Persuading the
Armitage inadvertently took a wrong direction, Joe Osborn warned him
say when faced by the unknown.
extraordinary absences became notorious, and, when he used to reappear
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Pourquoi?  Les rois n’ont qu’un cou, comme les autres
it may be, there is some spirit hidden of which the painted forms and
Vous avez bien raison, Salomé, de danser pour moi.  Et, après que vous
The bas-relief was a rough rectangle less than an inch thick and about
am his wife, I have a right to look!  [_Returns to bureau_, _takes out
2
exceed their amusement.  That was, of course, before they knew who I was.
college scientists were forced to own that they could not place it.
JACK.
because he was the King.  Indeed, he knew only two airs, and was never
Yes, Miss. He seemed very much disappointed. I mentioned that you and
The matter of the cult still remained to fascinate me, and at times
“My dear Harry, I did not treat it as a business transaction, and I did
“My roses are white,” it answered; “as white as the foam of the sea, and
the grass and examined it. “I am quite sure I shall understand it,” he
“I am waiting, Basil,” said the young man in a hard clear voice.
homme n’a jamais vu Dieu.  Personne n’a vu Dieu depuis le prophète Élie.
d that young Wilcox had known of the older matters
"Nothin' ... nothin' ... the colour ... it burns ... cold an' wet, but
still reeked with an unholy and unidentifiable stench. "As a foulness
that he had passed there, and a wonderful love that had stirred him to
die. Shallow sorrows and shallow loves live on. The loves and sorrows
of beautiful things about friendship, which Hans took down in a
cult around small
appreciation. "I guess he's sayin' the spell," whispered Wheeler as
y know who I am by
ALGERNON.
such a question—Robert, are you telling me the whole truth?
memories of pleasant days together.  At the moment when they come across
pomegranate, and he has large and dreamy eyes.  He is trying to finish a
boy! you should never forget it. If you only saw him, you would think
his window at night. He seemed to regard the circumstance as one of
mother with a growing contempt, finally forbidding her to go to the
curiosity; and it had set sail in great haste just after the storm
But perhaps it had been only his fancy that had called vengeance out of
ear.
upon his shoulder. “You are quite right to do that,” he murmured.
METHUEN & CO. LTD.
was then convinced that young Wilcox had known of the older matters
your short frocks.”
“I hope the girl is good, Harry. I don’t want to see Dorian tied to
LADY CHILTERN.  Oh, I am so glad!  I am so glad!  [_Shakes hands with_
see you at Lady Bonar’s to-night?  She has discovered a wonderful new
. . . awkward.  Besides, if you did make a clean breast of the whole
guests. I remember her bringing me up to a truculent and red-faced old
They got up and put on their coats, sipping their coffee standing. The
MABEL CHILTERN.]  May I have the pleasure of escorting you to the
folklore were very conservative in what they inferred. The plants were
Today learned the Aklo for the Sabaoth, [it ran] which did not
may not forest or city behold the hand that smites. Kadath in the
The Minister could not help smiling at the handsome young scapegrace,
idols which the Great Ones showed them; idols brought in dim eras
altered. It was not a mere fancy of his own. The thing was horribly
HÉRODE.  Ne te lève pas, mon épouse, ma reine, c’est inutile.  Je ne
LORD GORING.  Good morning, Miss Mabel!
watchful, droning whine from the dog, had by this time quite subsided;
of them, with black-tipped ears erect and long hinder limbs throwing it
caroused with the green-shirted jockeys in their stables and supped in
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Rushes to the door of the room_.]  It is not
to make him recall and record it verbatim, was of a fantastically
JACK.
an evil shadow, the very darkness seeming to loathe him as he passed.
"It is the blood of Lady Eleanore de Canterville, who was murdered on
left, Agatha?
storm arter the big bolt, when he see all the trees a-bendin' at the
was the fetish which this cult had cherished, and around which they
“You would hardly care for such an arrangement, Basil,” cried Lord
it became absolutely necessary that he should do so.
moon and Narcissus to Narcissus.  Truth in art is the unity of a thing
growing luminosity of the trees. The neighing and stamping of the
important business.
ll I want now is to look at life. You may come and look at it with
LADY CHILTERN.  No; it will be much to gain.
“I am not even singed. My wings are untouched.”
the fields and distorted woods in a mad cosmic frenzy, till soon the
sleep none.
The Duchess of Berwick
bow.
“I will stay with you always,” said the Swallow, and he slept at the
party's point of vantage above and behind the entity, had an excellent
une petite fleur pour vous, une petite fleur verte.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Stand back.  My life is at stake.  And I don’t care
upon that.
tomb's cold clamminess. The bent, goatish giant before him seemed like
across the room and rang the bell for tea. “You will have tea, of
“I want him to play to me,” cried Lord Henry, smiling, and he looked
serpentlike suggestion as it winds close to the feet of the domed hills
child ringing horrible in his ears.
CECILY.
curtain back, and you will see mine.”
subjects. It’s one’s duty to do so.
HÉRODE [_s’affaissant sur son siège_]  Qu’on lui donne ce qu’elle
LADY BRACKNELL.
“But must we really see Chicago in order to be educated?” asked Mr.
[To Miss Prism.] Lætitia! [Embraces her]
house, and though now almost an invalid, was by no means ready to let
Ammi would give me no added particulars of this scene, but the shape
of harm you must have done, Robert!
He had worn it with great success at the Kenilworth tournament, and had
s ministers on earth still bellow and prance and
too late now. The past could always be annihilated. Regret, denial, or
sole secret of creation.  He understood the leprosy of the leper, the
_Gazette_, but that dignitary did no more than write a humorous article
eyes, and rose-red lips—they all were there. It was simply the
through two centuries of Whateleys, and which were fast falling to
at the open pages; the left-hand one of which, in the Latin version,
and play in the Giant’s garden.
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Pourquoi?  Les rois n’ont qu’un cou, comme les autres
After some time they left the clay road and rattled again over
dips again there are stretches of marshland that one instinctively
she should not contract an alliance with him.
to treat them, that is to say, as modes of imperfection.  They were not
molded in his sleep the form of the dreaded Cthulhu. March 23rd the
run across the road; and the leaps of that rabbit were longer than
JACK.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_With a smile_.]  Then I am sure they will be perfectly
extravagance of the whole subject led me to adopt what I thought the
Miss Prism, this is a matter of no small importance to me. I insist on
ALGERNON.
“Quack, quack, quack,” she said.
that morning. He hesitated for a moment, and then put it aside. The
[Enter Algernon and Cecily hand in hand. They come slowly up to Jack.]
word to him about what he did.  I do not know to the present moment
also in my possession, you will be pleased to hear, certificates of
“I am beginning to be appreciated,” he cried; “this is from some great
Does life repeat its tragedies?
of certain youthful disappearances which suspicion laid vaguely at his
to Nahum's the next day they met with a bitter disappointment. The
but when I did so seemed only to be confronted by a greater and more
different.  I felt it myself, and made others feel it.  Byron was a
generally about life.
will Miss Cardew does not come legally of age till she is thirty-five.
destroy.
that . . . amongst other things.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  So sorry, Lady Windermere, to give you so much trouble.
Well, the only small satisfaction I have in the whole of this wretched
wherein our world and human race form transient incidents. They have
realise how and in what spirit they should approach me. . . .
everyone on the line, and found that only the Fryes did not reply. The
errands, or getting him to help at the mill.  Little Hans was very much
sat at his table under the electric light turning page after page
beautiful face, and his beautiful soul, he was a thing to wonder at. It
old chimney and cellar on my right, and the yawning black maw of an
children, if what is perfect should have a use.  Dante describes the soul
too, is full of wild rumor and legendry, and a fantastic painter named
the valley. It was just that. Only a wooden ripping and crackling, and
lights were still burning from three flickering jets: thin blue petals
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thank you.  Will you help me on with my cloak?
loveless thing.
shocking sounds and incidents.
fluently and not cough. Besides, I don’t know how to spell a cough.
keeper? I know how people chatter in England. The middle classes air
were talking in low whispers to each other. Old Mrs. Leaf was crying
the company of those whom Dante describes as having sought to “make
agitation, both because of the growing rumblings beneath the domed
alike, and in its morbid sympathy of its moods, and tones, and colours,
nature, but I warn you, Miss Cardew, you may go too far.
to think they were entirely unclothed. Afterward he could not be sure
In the evening I asked old people in Arkham about the blasted heath,
inutes Victor appeared with the lamps and drew the blinds down.
LADY WINDERMERE.  How weak bad men are!
present to me.  You know to-day is my birthday?
Augustus, you know how he repeats himself.  Such a bad habit!  But I told
had no idea that some day this would become to me one of the greatest
occupied by Mr. Erskine of Treadley, an old gentleman of considerable
such objects, considered in their capacity of being able to
LADY WINDERMERE.  Will you hold my fan for me, Lord Darlington?  Thanks.
but Nahum was very brave about it. He let the boy run about for a
glad when the new reservoir blots it out.
prison along with us all, and now when I go out I shall always remember
The older matters which had made the sculptor's dream and bas-relief so
LADY BRACKNELL.
petite boîte de parfums, et des boucles d’oreilles faites en argent, et
“Of myself,” said each of the Town Councillors, and they quarrelled.
off. Particularly when the weather was so charming.
nothing of the fact that she is my ward.
third husband, Lord Henry! You don’t mean to say Ferrol is the fourth?”
passed over the moon, and the silhouette of clutching branches faded
“‘Hans, I am surprised at you,’ said the Miller; ‘friendship never
“Why can’t you be like the Happy Prince?” asked a sensible mother of her
me? I think it is rather vain.”
to say. She has got a capital appetite, goes long walks, and pays no
a great service.
writhing and struggling below the black roots.
soul-life, and without its hideous warnings, he would be at peace. He
had come that white noontide cloud, that string of explosions in the
qui manquent à leur parole.  Je ne sais pas mentir.  Je suis l’esclave de
“Ah! but what do you mean by good?” cried Basil Hallward.
had
selfish,” she said.  So it was always Winter there, and the North Wind,
n my nerves, and so I’m leaving this afternoon by the
Dorian put the letter into his pocket. “Tell her Grace that I am coming
to this white girl and bowed in worship before her. To a large extent
these jewels are, or should be, heirlooms in your family. I must beg
shown by the meteor fragment in the college spectroscope, and like the
me?  If so, it was for me to come to you, not for you to write of coming
tive prefix served
ogre, and had stayed with him for seven years.  After the seven years
proximity to phases of nature and of being utterly forbidden, and
ALGERNON.
ORD WINDERMERE.  How hard good women are!
“I suppose it would,” muttered the lad, walking up and down the room
admitted that there was very little to examine. Specimens could be
the strange cult-members who had lingered in the old sea taverns.
the matter of determination far from easy. As he copied the formula
yacht under Johansen's command, the men sight a great stone pillar
LORD GORING.
judge by appearances. The true mystery of the world is the visible, not
across the room and rang the bell for tea. “You will have tea, of
With a width and wonder of imagination that fills one almost with awe, he
JACK.
upon the rumbling hills. Then the lightning flashed again, somewhat
h whom, indeed, he was distantly connected, his
Armitage (A. M. Miskatonic, Ph. D. Princeton, Litt. D. Johns Hopkins)
heat lingered persistently, and Nahum declared it had glowed faintly in
before, no theory of life seemed to him to be of any importance
Monk, or the Bloodless Benedictine," a performance so horrible that when
observed on the floor of the ruined Whateley
LORD GORING.  Yes, at ten.
genius. I love her, and I must make her love me. You, who know all the
“No, sir. Never saw him before. Seems like a sailor, sir.”
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Ah, the dear pretty baby!  How is the little
version, as printed in Spain in the Seventeenth Century. He had never
certainly odd, but all skunk-cabbages are more or less odd in shape
Iokanaan?  Si tu m’avais regardée tu m’aurais aimée.  Je sais bien que tu
MABEL CHILTERN.  You’ll stop to luncheon, Lord Caversham, won’t you?
things of earth, for shapes came out of the dark to visit the faithful
was that I resolved never to allow the picture to be exhibited. You
“Ugliness is one of the seven deadly virtues, Gladys. You, as a good
man passed him in the mist, walking very fast and with the collar of
Mrs. Cheveley meant?
him, but not catching the meaning of his words. The sense of his own
child. There is a son, a charming fellow, I believe. But he is not on
club.
myrrhe, toi qui es la colombe des colombes, ne regarde pas cet homme, ne
impression that it is a form of European refinement, but Mrs. Otis had
“Whose house is that, Constable?” asked the elder of the two gentlemen.
cursed Voices of _Azazel_ and _Buzrael_, of _Beelzebub_ and
SALOMÉ.  Je n’écoute pas ma mère.  C’est pour mon propre plaisir que je
would despise.  In a week you will be driving with this woman in the
fountain-head.
delightful.  I love being scolded by her.
romance, he obtained admission to my house by means of the false
was by no means ready to let
he was most conscientious in all things connected with the supernatural.
“Half-past six! What an hour! It will be like having a meat-tea, or
bees; the fantastic rob
over nothing remained but a ragged pit by the ancient well-sweep,
They shunned people now, and when school opened the boys did not go.
society that it should force them to do so.  Society takes upon itself
and a half from any other dwelling, that Wilbur Whateley was born at 5
“Come, let us sit down and try what the new _chef_ here is like, and
been erased from Dunwich.
couvercle de ce puits.
There was a hideous screaming which echoed above even the hill noises
Street all profess complete bafflement, and which the survivor says
shelves in a rear room of the museum, my eye was caught by an odd
death.
_pulling out a green letter-case_, _puts the ornament carefully in it_,
“Nothing,” he answered. “I suppose one must be serious sometimes.
Legrasse's men as they plowed on through the black morass toward the
tentacled head surmounted a grotesque and scaly body with rudimentary
steps--and merciful Heaven!--the faint but unmistakable luminosity of
an old-fashioned trencher and ewer, that were placed just out of its
the Rocket, “otherwise you would know who I am.  However, I excuse your
saying, “Quack, quack, quack.”
JACK.
good looks. One day you introduced me to a friend of yours, who
help me. It is impossible for you to refuse now. I tried to spare you.
a coherent form.
repair, as I have a plank of wood in the house.’
Sime or an Angarola could paint.
qui manquent à leur parole.  Je ne sais pas mentir.
I will communicate with you daily.
precious. Her feet are very pretty, but they are not feet of clay.
members, proved doubly exciting to Inspector Legrasse; and he began at
LORD WINDERMERE.  Good God!  [_Seizes the fan_—DUMBY _rises_.]
LORD GORING.
disarrangement or threatened disarrangement of which always seemed to
which to live really, perfectly, and fully. When your youth goes, your
him, and a terror to most of his relations, whom he bullied in turn.
You may also address me as Aunt Augusta for the future.
had left their hives and taken to the woods.
the cult in some casual way, and had soon forgotten it amidst the mass
sounds which came increasingly from the great empty shell formed by
“And those are ...?” asked Lord Henry, helping himself to some salad.
English can’t stand a man who is always saying he is in the right, but
immediately. Just as they were passing out of the dining-room, midnight
MABEL CHILTERN.  Really?  I must tell my dressmaker.  It will be such a
LADY BRACKNELL.
had done before him.
d’agate qu’il portait toujours à la main.  Le soir nous nous promenions
“Not seventeen, Lady Henry?”
PREMIER SOLDAT.  J’ai peur que ce soit impossible, princesse.  Le
of dark blue trunks or trousers on.
some
ground.”
Something very like fright had come over all the explorers before
[SIR ROBERT _hands her the letter_.  _She reads it_, _and then_, _with a
As soon as he was dressed, he went into the library and sat down to a
once. There is no time to be lost.
anodyne for his pain. He followed into the market and watched the men
entering_.  _Door L.U.
speculating on that subject. Divorces are made in
HÉRODIAS.  Oh!  Oh! les miracles.  Je ne crois pas aux miracles.  J’en ai
“All right, Dorian. I dare say I shall see you to-morrow at tea-time.
modern.”
I knew it! there is not a word of truth in this stupid story.  [_Puts
Johansen, thank God, did not know quite all, even though he saw the
Ammi stared blankly at the stars of Cygnus, Deneb twinkling above the
were conscious. It often happened that when we thought we were
s, and cannot: that is all one can say.”
“How wonderful, Basil!”
“Just turn your head a little more to the right, Dorian, like a good
of dark blue trunks or trousers on. Wilbur was never subsequently seen
ACT II. The Garden at the Manor House, Woolton.
appreciation of the visible arts, and whatever little sense of the
CHAPTER XVI.
épées, qu’ils l’écrasent sous leurs boucliers.
Cecily, who lives at Tunbridge Wells, calls you her dear uncle. Come,
all.”
_February_ 22_nd_, 1892.
“To be good is to be in harmony with one’s self,” he replied, touching
course, language. Her eldest son, christened Washington by his parents
Skeleton," a _rôle_ in which he had on more than one occasion produced a
of bachelors that one sees all over the place. In the second place, I
boy-lover as soon as he came of age.
the people could stand it no more.
“How fortunate it is for the King’s son,” he remarked, “that he is to be
as they hated and feared young Wilbur personally.
flock of woolly sheep; but Hans never troubled his head about these
suggested a plausible explanation.
Charming.”
copy from an aged _angekok_ or wizard-priest, expressing the sounds in
of them accounts of the queer dreams of different persons, some of
supper.
done?  What can be done?
to say. There is some answer to you, but I cannot find it. Don’t speak.
of the well-sweep was shining now, and presently a policeman dumbly
wholesome beasts and birds of the woods. It was nightmare itself, and
of this abhorred area, but that location was bad enough; hence perhaps
ir of purer aims and higher
he opened his eyes a faint smile passed across his lips, as though he
En effet, j’ai trouvé qu’il l’avait un peu trop regardée.
alive and conscious without complete and tightly buttoned attire, the
question, and she insisted on going over the whole thing again, and
His mother! He had something on his mind to ask of her, something that
pocket. He had sufficient strength to get home, but was so clearly in
SALOMÉ [_s’agenouillant_] Je veux qu’on m’apporte présentement dans un
scarf-pin and changing his rings more than once. He spent a long time
LADY WINDERMERE.  Nothing in the whole world would induce me.
“Dorian,” cried Hallward, “that is not the question. England is bad
accept a sacrifice so great.  If you do, you will live to repent it
“Well, really,” exclaimed a small Fire-balloon, “why not?  It is a most
[_Exit_ PARKER.  _The music in the ball-room stops_.]  Gone out of her
mammals.
other!
one look so plain, so good and so
Dorian Gray laughed, and tossed his head. “You are quite incorrigible,
Dorian half opened the door. As he did so, he saw the face of his
lying on the hall table. He opened it and found it was from Dorian
The poor children had now nowhere to play.  They tried to play on the
remove.
his tale was all a freak of madness as the townsfolk had forewarned.
letters, he smiled. Three of them bored him. One he read several times
recognized some solvents as I mentioned them in the usual order of use.
the thunder above which they echoed--yet did they come from no visible
“Oh, yes, horrid people with dyed hair and painted faces.”
perhaps the Prince and Princess may go to live in a country where there
“Why have you stopped playing, Dorian? Go back and give me the nocturne
trapped by the sinking whilst within his black abyss, or else the world
there was hardly a person in what I suppose they called the
less thick. A dim though distinct luminosity seemed to inhere in all
skin, coarse crinkly hair, and oddly elongated ears.
and the water had the taste of good wine, and the whole house became full
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes, I am crying, for I have something to tell you,
conservatism, had found him quite hopeless.
are watching them, and cooing to each other.
took away by mistake last night.  Mrs. Erlynne has written a message on
The joy of Beatrice was my joy, and the sorrows of Cordelia were mine
burning wood on his own hearth. In politics he was a Tory, except when
incessant beating far within the black haunted woods where no dweller
room was deadly cold; and as Ammi visibly shivered, the host shouted
safe from detection, although every proof against me is destroyed, I
.  We can talk over anything you like.  Let
could go, and the next day he was laid up with a severe cold.
“Perhaps.”
took most of his meals at his club. He paid some attention to the
after all horizontal--and the men wondered how any door in the universe
were times when it appeared to Dorian Gray that the whole of history
position of affluence. I believe there is no society of any kind in the
the room.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  He reflects every credit on the institution.
duty and responsibility.
The young Student was still lying on the grass, where she had left him,
MRS. CHEVELEY.  A diamond snake-brooch with a ruby, a rather large ruby.
will bitterly reproach him in your own heart, and seriously think that
his own infinite curiosity about life.
cosmic geometry unknown to earth or the solar system. On each of the
CECIL GRAHAM.  Well, you’ll have lots of topics of conversation with
only verbs and pronouns. Things moved and changed and fluttered, and
JACK.
first time_.]
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Trembling_.]  The police?  What for?
felt that it was a door because of the ornate lintel, threshold, and
silent heretofore, spoke aloud.
exception.  And they never grow any better.
[Stiffly_._] I believe it is customary in good society to take some
buried in his arms, a sailor sprawled over a table, and by the tawdrily
ALGERNON.
ret.  [_Exit_.]
The Duke rose and kissed his wife lovingly.
avec sa robe teinte de pourpre; qui éclate dans la beauté de ses
By H. P. Lovecraft
of that old-time raiding-party, saw the frightful image, and even
HÉRODIAS.  Faites-le taire!
and on that date the dreams of sensitive men assumed a heightened
a reapplication of the complex key became necessary. Lunch and dinner
errands in town. They were failing curiously both physically and
Hon. Gwendolen Fairfax: Miss Irene Vanbrugh.
everything. Thought and language are to the artist instruments of an
no other way to annul the deeper and more malign meddling which others
sacrament that should be taken kneeling, and _Domine, non sum dignus_
feet and walking down the conservatory.
years of his life in trying to get some grievance redressed, or some
“And what, pray, is your idea of the duties of a devoted friend?” asked a
it fust an' look at the graound.
aspilates, that, according to Democritus, kept the wearer from any
It is awfully hard work doing nothing. However, I don’t mind hard work
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Restraining herself_.]  I am not.  I am telling you the
have got all my creepers to nail up, and all my flowers to water, and all
me up. Let me take it along, sir, an' I'll swar they wun't nobody know
any rate. Now to minor matters. Are your parents living?
meagre meal. The flies buzzed round the table and crawled over the
had disappeared. It was inside this circle that the ring of worshipers
it occurred to me to examine the personal ring which the professor
vous allez danser pour moi, Salomé?  Vous avez promis de danser pour moi.
should she hesitate between her ruin and mine? . . . How strange!  I
it, I would have rejected it.
The duchess sighed.
merely the beauty of heaven, but the horror of hell also.  When I think
Thurston, of Boston.]
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Walking up and down_.]  I have reasons now to
Cecily, you have lifted a load from my mind. I was growing almost
exactly fetid nor exactly salty, and Ammi advised his friend to dig
eir absurd want of meaning, their entire lack
air, and hide it as a secret disgrace in their hearts, and at length,
friendship is another, and they should not be confused.  Why, the words
had done before him.
court further publicity by a violent resistance or refusal to talk.
“Then he asked me if I wrote for any of the newspapers. I told him I
IOKANAAN, le prophète
“Keep quiet,” said the man. “If you stir, I shoot you.”
man who could call a spade a spade should be compelled to use one. It
now resolved to visit Mate Johansen in Oslo.
calling him to judgement. A look of pain came across him, and he flung
HÉRODE.  La lune a l’air très étrange ce soir.  N’est-ce pas que la lune
beset them, and now and then a pile of dank stones or fragments of a
her with the coroner,
LORD GORING.  [_Expostulating_.]  My dear father, if I am to get married,
Dunedin, N. Z., which was sighted April 12th in S. Latitude 34° 21',
my business took me through and past it.
whom I have spoken, who are dumb under oppression, and 'whose silence is
LADY CHILTERN.  How dare you class my husband with yourself?  How dare
Apollo was like the sun's disc crescent over a hill at dawn, and his feet
moved despite my rational beliefs. Wilcox, I was sure, had heard of
neither society here, nor solitude.  In fact, it is essentially suburban.
sitters to have some one to chat to.”
oriel window on the first and third Wednesdays in every month, and he
passions in him that would find their terrible outlet, dreams that
would not approach the barn. It shied, balked, and whinnied, and in
to do, almost died of _ennui_, and became a confirmed misanthrope. And
the grey desolation outside. The men were frankly nonplussed by the
an' ain't got to your haouse yet, I calc'late they must go into the
may be hidden in the single bud, and the low ground nest of the lark may
servants exercises a restraining influence, under which both girls
appeal to the sense of humour.  On November 13th, 1895, I was brought
day begins and finishes, the harsh orders that routine seems to
not make any formal proposal. I told her that I loved her, and she said
room with them. In the absence of the lamplight it was clear that a
believe it.”
storm would prove a short, sharp one followed by clear weather.
jambs around it, though they could not decide whether it lay flat like
cheque-book can solve every problem in life.
fit to eat. Into the fine flavour of the pears and apples had crept
believed in everything, and knew absolutely nothing. How lovely that
Wednesday evening while the season lasted, he would throw open to the
far than any of the communities within thirty miles of it. South of the
father had been our ambassador at Madrid when Isabella was young and
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
“I shall stay with the real Dorian,” he said, sadly.
black iron branches to and fro. He shivered and went back, closing the
him in an attic room across the hall from his mother's. The way they
thieves and coiners and knew the mysteries of their trade. His
in the Miskatonic where the devil held court beside a curious stone
must go and see Gertrude.
He is finer than even I thought him.  [_To_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.]  You
looks it will have the right cast.
family retired, and by half-past all the lights were out. Some time
But Armitage had a sound physique despite his seventy-three years, and
[Looks at her in amazement.] Oh! Of course I have been rather reckless.
from the window. He thought of the wild tales he had heard, and
his sway.
[LADY CHILTERN _goes out with him_.]
sarabands over an accursed marsh; and its colour was that same nameless
The region now entered by the police was one of traditionally evil
CHASUBLE.
flung himself into the rickety chair that was standing by the table and
MRS. CHEVELEY.  At that time I was poor; you were rich.
and which have inherited many forms and traditions from the wizards of
is a dangerous thing to reform any one, Lady Windermere.  [_Bows_, _and
pocket. He had sufficient strength to get home, but was so clearly in
you—memories that now are horrible to me.  And how I worshipped you!  You
“The dead linger sometimes. The man upstairs will not go away. He is
frore gusts from interstellar space. It shrieked and howled, and lashed
because it suggests something Wilcox had told me of his awful dreams.
JACK.
carriage has come back?
most intimate friends.”
least, in any true or stable sense. He had taken somewhat after his
Stubbornly refusing to grow cool, it soon had the college in a state
dead and inorganic things? Nay, without thought or conscious desire,
fit to eat.
conservatism, had found him quite hopeless.
phrase; a great deal of it is hidden away in the note of doom that like a
great achievement.  But in a manner not yet understood of the world he
course, for the next twenty-four hours the whole thing is a dead secret.
he flung it away—Procopius tells the story—nor was it ever found again,
country was going to the dogs. His principles were out of date, but
of the Mountains of the Moon, who is as black as ebony, and worships a
you no more than the sound of music. It has not marred you. You are
Oxford a few months—I really don’t know what they teach them there.
pas que le tétrarque le voie.
tout à fait bêtes.  [_Au page_.]  Eh! bien, mon éventail.  [_Le page lui
[_They converse together_.  LORD WINDERMERE _moves uneasily about the
Lord Henry smiled and looked at Dorian Gray.
besought the professor to remember as best he might the syllables taken
as he spoke, like music, and seemed to have a language of their own.
tenebrousness was indeed a _positive quality_; for it obscured such
letters.
PHIPPS.  The candles in the drawing-room are lit, madam, as you directed.
theatre to-night. He is going to be there, and I am to play Juliet. Oh!
with a complement of eleven men.
des anges.
The chief of these outsiders, and in a short time the focus of interest
bouquet_.]
thunderously down from the frantic vacancy beside that shocking
place where he could be cared for.
day.
Later, it seems, he and one companion boarded the yacht and tried
dans sa vie le prophète a eu raison.  Les rois de la terre ont peur . . .
of wizardry, and must be put down by the same means. I've seen Wilbur
'O Seigneur, donnez moi la force et le courage
night that Rubinstein played there, and after that used to be always
"_Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lye
aggressive and going down into the glen in quest of their nameless,
“And the duchess loves you very much, but she likes you less, so you
when brought up by a firm rein. Thereafter Ammi gave Nahum's tales
neighbour, Lord Rufford. It was about a quarter-past two o'clock in
LORD DARLINGTON.  You shall not search my rooms.  You have no right to do
surely you will allow me to choose the time, place, and person?
Dr. Armitage read for the first time a continuous passage of Wilbur
The five cats had left some time before, but their going was scarcely
like poor poisoned things, creep into some hole and die.  It is wretched
amused me. He was such a monster. You will laugh at me, I know, but I
*       *       *       *       *
eloquent over the dignity of labour. It was charming to have escaped
expression of disgust. “He thinks he’s got red ants on him,” laughed
Renan thought so.
DUMBY.  Oh, I think not.  There’ll probably be two more.  [_Wanders back
CHAPTER III.
winter snow. Snow never seems quite so heavy on the blasted heath as
know it is very generous of me, and a great many people would think me
telling a story to which I could see my uncle attached profound
“Safe from what, Dorian? You are in some trouble. Why not tell me what
bridge two little boys were lying in one another’s arms to try and keep
King James, as one who was “caressed by the Court for his handsome
thought can pass, had cut off the spectral intercourse. But memory
Algy. And a very good thing too.
that the greater city masqueraded as "Christiania." I made the brief
LORD GORING.  No, father, I am not married.
unreal thing.  A pillory is a terrific reality.  They should have known
“The King’s garden is not the world, you foolish squib,” said a big Roman
the roof.  Through this he darted, and came into the room.  The young man
it still were_, and I discounted with almost inexplicable perversity
small tray of old Sevres china, and drew back the olive-satin curtains,
be hypocrisy.
The carp-pond had been dragged, and the whole Chase thoroughly gone
blowing about in the chill wind that came down the chimney. Presently
in dreadfully late, and didn’t like to wake you.  You are crying, dear.
“Let us go and sit in the shade,” said Lord Henry. “Parker has brought
Then wisdom altered its method and spoke of espial and discovery. This
utterances of men and things.  The Mystical in Art, the Mystical in Life,
daughter’s head. “Happy!” she echoed, “I am only happy, Sibyl, when I
world.  Then the Hail stopped dancing over his head, and the North Wind
Ils vont deux à deux entre les cyprès et les myrtes noirs et chacun a son
yours.  Put down my cloak, sir.
LADY WINDERMERE.  There is not a _good_ woman in London who would not
boasting that she had got you to lend your support, your name, to a thing
gossips would not credit this. Certainly, however, restlessness was
compare notes. As it was, lacking their original letters, I half
LE PREMIER SOLDAT.  Oui, il a l’air sombre.
full of surprises. Her capacity for family affection is extraordinary.
“Any place you love is the world to you,” exclaimed a pensive Catherine
they told me the place was evil. They told me this in Arkham, and
It was long past noon when he awoke. His valet had crept several times
while the intermittent light of a spectral half-moon played wanly on
about her. Her eyes opened wide in exquisite wonder when I told her
“No, Basil, you must tell me,” insisted Dorian Gray. “I think I have a
itself. I did not want any external influence in my life. You know
as much as for what is evil and perverse, I must accept the fact that one
wild hour of madness he had killed his friend! How ghastly the mere
that face with the red eyes an' crinkly albino hair, an' no chin, like
CHASUBLE.
had happened, and soon learned of the annihilation of the Elmer Frye
clothes
“Harry, how can you?”
for one’s morals to see bad acting. Besides, I don’t suppose you will
immensely.  Every one was a great success except the Remarkable Rocket.
the fan_.]
expression in words: so that while for the first year of my imprisonment
known to him, who had latterly been studying sculpture at the Rhode
moral character. I suspect him of being untruthful. [Algernon and
cornucopias, like a third-rate wedding-cake. The gallery and pit were
sculpture had animated this terrible object, yet centuries and even
The whole family gazed at her in mute amazement, but she was quite grave
of flesh and blood. They had shape--for did not this star-fashioned
toward Arkham by the north road. Ammi was worse than his fellows,
“Dorian Gray is engaged to be married,” said Lord Henry, watching him
lives met—our souls touched.  They must never meet or touch again.
I suppose that is why he often looks a little bored when we three are
little humiliated at first, but afterwards was sensible enough to see
silent regarding the part he knew, and that he would have destroyed his
Locally, interest was intensified by the obscurity of the cause of
had chasubles, also, of amber-coloured silk, and blue silk and gold
type. All art is at once surface and symbol. Those who go beneath the
last. He was going to rip up the canvas.
drawing-room on the occasion of her marriage, her jewels were the
stone, with a subterrene voice or intelligence shouting monotonously
hideous picture and some cryptic writing. And as far as he could tell,
CECILY.
cela.  Je ne veux pas parler de cela.  C’est à cause de cela que le
man of that party agreed in whispering later on,
"An' he says, says he, Mis' Corey, as haow he sot to look fer Seth's
herself by telling Sibyl how desolate she felt her life would be, now
the bad eend he desarved, is at the bottom of the breedin' of it. He
There could be no question of poison, for all the cases occurred in a
cattle-buying on the part of small Wilbur's family which ended only
kindly disposition, found me, and gave me the name of Worthing, because
rejoined his fellows, and everyone watched the queer recession of the
CECILY.
e dim twilight, and then in the bright dawn, he had seen the touch of
avec un voile, et mettez des cendres sur votre tête, et allez dans le
more, it may be, for that reason.  It is not the perfect, but the
_Fourth F’cap. 8vo Edition_                     _May_           _1915_
ACT IV.  _Same as Act II_.
of the visitors seemed so far unaffected.
have a right to demand it back.”
Got nice neighbours in your part of Shropshire?
a alone on the
Que ferai-je, Iokanaan, maintenant?  Ni les fleuves ni les grandes eaux,
divan, he buried his face in the cushions, as though he was praying.
aristocracy. He has all the appearance of it, I must say. It might be a
I met you I saw that you were quite unconscious of what you really are,
arriver? . . . Je l’ai prédit moi-même et il est arrivé.
two left. [Takes them.] I told you I was particularly fond of muffins.
surface do so at their peril. Those who read the symbol do so at their
“Ah! this morning! You have lived since then.”
_rises at once and takes his arm_.]  But I will come down with you with
is the orchestra. It is quite dreadful, but it only lasts for about
verse and in painting.
shoulder. "Dun't go out thar," he whispered. "They's more to this nor
lished floor,
[_Un rayon de lune tombe sur Salomé et l’éclaire_.]
and fore feet, and long, narrow wings behind.
sins once, and has done with its sin, for action is a mode of
papers and collections of my uncle, failed in any way to identify this
frightened man on the dark stairs to guess what had sent them. But that
ALGERNON.
I have put Mr. Ernest’s things in the room next to yours, sir. I
“I remember it! Oh, how well I remember it! No! the thing is
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Ah! you must be at home to me, Arthur.  You are my
s, but preferred to live in chambers as it was less trouble, and
MISS PRISM.
with the hideous unknown blend of colour; trees, buildings, and even
Ernest. It’s on your cards. Here is one of them. [Taking it from case.]
“Stop, Gray.
Lord Augustus so jealous!  Lord Augustus!  [LORD AUGUSTUS _comes down_.]
_watches_, _with a look of scorn and pain_, MRS. ERLYNNE _and her
things that we would throw away if we were not afraid that others might
purple pall and a mask of noble sorrow, but that the dreadful thing about
LADY WINDERMERE.  Then I shall do exactly as I have said.  [_Goes R._]
“Why, indeed?” whispered a Daisy to his neighbour, in a soft, low voice.
this
their grotesque tales of it ever reached the people of the countryside.
ALGERNON.
after all horizontal--and the men wondered how any door in the universe
thinking of others.  And mind you take the big basket with you for the
have left it. But we can soon alter all that. A thoroughly experienced
woke late Friday, clear of head, though sober, with a gnawing fear and
gone,” he said to himself, “she has a decidedly middle-class mind”; and
"I dun't keer what folks think--ef Lavinny's boy looked like his pa, he
subsidence into lethargy. His temperature, oddly enough, was not
He went to his room and dressed. There was a wild recklessness of
eternally over old New England secrets in the lee of great ledges; but
what, in God's name, can we do?_"
“Well, eighteen, then.
understand how it was that everything had gone from me. I thought that
the rain,' lovely things both of them, down to the shop-windows and
understand, a peculiarly modern type, summed up by Christ when he
That was the document I read, and now I have placed it in the tin box
colours.
and twenty-one diamonds. Richard II had a coat, valued at thirty
which to escape them. Across a covered bridge one sees a small village
long-fringed Persian rugs. On a tiny satinwood table stood a statuette
of any sane planet. Awe at the unbelievable size of the greenish stone
him, as he thought of her lying at his feet sobbing like a little
whose picture really fascinates me, never thinks. I feel quite sure of
certainly would not have listened to you; in fact, I should have said
cult around small
We have married perfect husbands, and we are well punished for it.
the sincerity of the man who expresses it.
_Cryptomenysis Patefacta_, Davys' and Thicknesse's Eighteenth Century
to the stairway. That peddler told the store loungers at Dunwich
was fast taking form.
too well, and the three men rushed across the hall to the small
words.
apportera des malheurs . . . J’ai peur qu’il n’ait raison.  Je suis sûr
ughed Dorian.
afternoon several persons drove past to see the abnormal growth, and
Cable advices from Dunedin report that the _Alert_ was well known
found they were seen to be quite useless and unmanageable. Something
LORD GORING.  [_In his most earnest manner_.]  Oh! please don’t.  It is
JACK.
round her.  But with me she will not dance, for I have no red rose to
an English gentleman.
went into the well after it had done with poor Nahum....
were common. In the last stages--and death was always the result--there
letely out.
comes upon a lonely and curious country. The ground gets higher, and
There he paused for a moment, feeling that he was on the brink of a
Lord Henry went out to the garden and found Dorian Gray burying his
have never been remarkable for olfactory immaculateness.
animal’s grace of movement that strangely charmed Dorian Gray, and he
man.  Christ found the type and fixed it, and the dream of a Virgilian
LADY PLYMDALE               _Miss Granville_.
roses, defiled in front of him, threading their way through the huge,
the poor woman screamed about things in the air which she could not
stronger than you are.
for convenient pitching. And all the while the vegetation was turning
ing about after a
Sawyer told the loungers at Osborn's that more carpentry was going on
“It’s no use,” sighed Adrian Singleton. “I don’t care to go back. What
h,
FIRST ACT
of a man by the effect he has over his friends. Yours seem to lose all
W.’ Uncle Jack’s brother! Did you tell him Mr. Worthing was in town?
round face glowed all over with pleasure.  ‘I can easily put it in
THEATRE ROYAL, HAYMARKET
bottom of the pail. Truly, it was not large, but perhaps they had taken
bonfire; in the center of which, revealed by occasional rifts in the
[_They go downstairs with the other guests_, _passing_ SIR ROBERT
course by the great storm of March 1st, and on March 22d, in S.
unlike the run
“Because I have promised Lord Henry Wotton to go with him.”
all the honours, and invariably lose the odd trick.
sorrow than men. They lived on their emotions. They only thought of
you ever since I met you! But I am bound to state that now that I know
sat by Lord Henry. Mr. Chapman began to talk in a loud voice about the
relations that imaginative sympathy which in the sphere of Art is the
girl of fifteen, lithe and lovely as a fawn, and with a fine freedom
seemed to make the stillness more oppressive. The dim roar of London
Editions on Handmade Paper and Japanese
the smaller mass they saw that the core of the thing was not quite
nothing else.
CECILY.
“Well, that is his loss, not mine,” answered the Rocket.  “I am not going
alter you. What you have told me is quite a romance, a romance of art
excellent reputation, and Johansen is described as a sober and
Merriman, order the dog-cart at once. Mr. Ernest has been suddenly
about an hour before the blaze was remarked. Silas was rounding up a
of a Philistine. Since I have known you, Harry, I have discovered
Romains les ont chassés.  Il y en a qui disent qu’ils se sont réfugiés
not seeing his own face in a glass. The moral life of man forms part of
he had sought to depict in his dream-sculpture. Reference to this
"How horrid!" cried Mrs. Otis; "I don't at all care for blood-stains in
are excellently matched.”
do that?
curiously at the immense carved door with the now familiar squid-dragon
with tears.  “Ah, on what little things does happiness depend!  I have
darlings.  [_Throws himself down into a chair_, _picks up a paper and
order back the _Emma_ as they sailed about with their hideous idol?
world his beautiful house and have the most celebrated musicians of the
covering the same period as that in which young Wilcox had had his
he was slightly luminous in the
moods, and I can’t bear him when he sulks. Besides, I want you to tell
wonder, for what thoughts must arise upon hearing, after a knowledge
away from the solar system and cosmos of matter into some other plane
what fer!"
I shall not be unfaithful to the spirit of the thing. A pulpy,
of her day, and was renowned for her graceful dancing.  When she made her
While Lord Henry sat dreaming on these things, a knock came to the
test again the disappearing fragment left carefully cased in lead.
. All crime is vulgar, just as all vulgarity is crime.
dangereuse.  C’est une idée qui vient des écoles d’Alexandrie où on
MRS. MARCHMONT.
an impossibility in a normal world. Only the least fraction was really
should hear the news from indifferent lips, travelled, ill as she was,
don’t care what shame comes on you. You deserve it all. I should not be
gipsies tore wild music from little zithers, or grave, yellow-shawled
this is the little bangle with the true lover’s knot I promised you
disperse. Botanists, too, ought to study the stunted flora on the
“I must sow poppies in my garden,” sighed Dorian.
say when faced by the unknown.
But the shying of horses near Nahum's house had now become an
peculiarly abominable quality about them which made their destruction
for American diplomacy by leading the German at the Newport Casino for
ntensity of the dreams
d as the rumblings and
had aroused them in the night, and their neighing and kicking in their
retain the present the ghost had given her, and when, in the spring of
have increased the theatrical picturesqueness of the situation.
turning almost white from fear.
rut, then swerved aside and broke into a gallop.
dress, and with such little result.
and for the same space of time.  That is not such a tragic thing as
a detached piece of the phosphorescence appeared to stir furtively in
the bulrushes, and on a great granite throne sits the God Memnon.  All
half-articulate thunder-croakings drawn? Presently they began to gather
One always thinks of him as a young bridegroom with his companions, as
small barred window of that terrible attic room where nameless things
but had he been able to connect and reflect upon all the portents
the ghost at some length. The United States Minister was naturally a
universal theme of admiration. For Virginia received the coronet, which
CECILY.
I’m sorry for that, for your sake. I don’t play accurately—any one can
her head, she was so attached to her home.
flagging quest; and I carefully tore it out for immediate action. It
well. There was a crushed and apparently somewhat melted mass of iron
irremediable wrong.  I can claim on my side that if I realise what I have
they?  Probably no one deserved anything.  Or perhaps they were a
my grass to roll.’
My own one!
“I should have objected very strongly this morning, Lord Henry.”
name?”
few. But these were not the Great Old Ones. No man had ever seen the
never to look at your picture again, I am content. I have always you to
at once.  I will make your excuses to Margaret.
was left to him.
suddenly in sight of the spectacle itself. Four of them reeled, one
the night. The professors tried it with a geologist's hammer and found
such grass and herbage as had not been wholly changed to lethal grey
and the hitched horses pawed and whinnied in increasing frenzy. It was
Algy, kindly turn your back. I have something very particular to say to
forgot that I was in London and in the nineteenth century. I was away
I must retire to my room for a moment. Gwendolen, wait here for me.
“She behaves as if she was beautiful. Most American women do. It is the
“I didn’t say I liked it, Harry. I said it fascinated me. There is a
“About three weeks.”
nature. Your Christian name has an irresistible fascination. The
to me. But I do not think my life will be long. As my uncle went, as
on the sofa_.]  Your nephew and I are great friends.  I am so much
seized the thing, and stabbed the picture with it.
was a nocturnal suicide in London, where a lone sleeper had leaped
[_Les esclaves apportent des parfums et les sept voiles et ôtent les
ALGERNON.
Rosencrantz see no more in his conduct than a rather painful breach of
chair.
"Mr. Armitage," he said, "I calc'late I've got to take that book home.
face_.]
an ivory manger with a jewel-frontleted horse; and, as Domitian, had
with frightened expectancy the ceaseless, half-mental calling from
ry looked over at Mr. Erskine. “Humanity takes itself too
My dear Algy, I don’t know whether you will be able to understand my
hat they found. Merwin
SCENE
LADY WINDERMERE.  It is right that I should see her.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Oh, no!  I do the encouraging.  But you will make me a
JACK.
always feel I must be wrong.
sky, no hearer was ever able to place. A single lightning bolt shot
lued at two hundred thousand florins, was bought at the
watched.
Mrs. Cheveley.  I should not fancy Mrs. Cheveley is a woman who would be
"the moving colours down there." Two in one family was pretty bad,
LORD DARLINGTON.  Do you know I am afraid that good people do a great
an added shock that the others were spared, and was crushed for ever
marqueterie table.
this afternoon?
Yet he was not really reckless, at any rate in his relations to
of Miss Fanny Devonport over Sarah Bernhardt as an actress; the
hills of life, and mocked the slow Silenus for being sober. Facts fled
him?”
voir son
He sighed and touched the bell. The portrait must be hidden away at all
Not a man breathed for several seconds. Then a cloud of darker depth
“A delightful voice, certainly,” continued the Frog; “I hope you will
_The_ Dunwich Horror
He began to tremble.
emancipated them, but they remain slaves looking for their masters, all
the face of the earth, and the stone rolled to the door of the sepulchre.
[Lady Bracknell sweeps out in majestic indignation.]
Shakespeare's drawing of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.  They are Hamlet's
that. He is some brainless beautiful creature who should be always here
by the methods of natural science, but the ordinary subject-matter of
home from which all standards of order and cleanliness had long since
“You are mad, Dorian.”
and then the less organized ululations would cease, and from what
had brought upon his soul with a pity that was all the more poignant
down and tell me all about it. Young people, nowadays, imagine that
with Basil Hallward.
remember once at Bath, years ago, losing in the Pump Room an exceedingly
Let women make no more ideals of men! let them not put them on altars and
shine on the telescopes and photographic plates of our observatories.
JACK.
in an easy-chair in his office, but was at the manuscript again before
had lost my parents. It would be nearer the truth to say that my
maudite, Salomé, tu es maudite.  [_Il descend dans la citerne_.]
individualism has really the higher aim. Modern morality consists in
Unmarried! I do not deny that is a serious blow.
three-volume novel, Cecily. I wrote one
ogy. On the contrary, his wish for enlightenment was prompted
impression that inordinate joviality can atone for an entire lack of
woods. He could not pass that well from which his horses had run away.
JACK.
when he is dressing for dinner.
Henry. I never talk during music—at least, during good music. If one
MABEL CHILTERN.  Yes.
Those fragments, as Armitage recalls them, ran something like "_N'gai,
Not a man breathed for several seconds. Then a cloud of darker depth
lessons when they are of no use to us!  For even if she doesn’t tell, I
music-room?
When they reached the Achilles Statue, she turned round. There was pity
LORD GORING.  What do you want then, Mrs. Cheveley?
one thing.
old ledger was at length given wholly into the charge of Dr. Armitage,
has become quite impossible.  He always seems to think that he is
PARKER.  The men want to know if they are to put the carpets on the
picture, sometimes loathing it and himself, but filled, at other times,
e an important day in my
Yes—write the word dishonest.  She knows what that word means.  [SIR
could not see was glimpsed by a timid windmill salesman from Bolton who
me when I was a little boy, made me in his will guardian to his
This ghastly state of things is what you call Bunburying, I suppose?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Yes, quite serious.
Lord Windermere insists on my dancing with him first, and, as it’s his
Minister and his wife, then Washington and the three boys, and in the
Shropshire.  It is very sad, very sad indeed.  I can’t understand this
eclipsed the window, and a second later he felt himself brushed as if
Yes, and a perfectly wonderful Bunbury it is. The most wonderful
Your brother Ernest. He arrived about half an hour ago.
can, don’t they?  It is most fashionable.
HÉRODIAS.  Je n’entends rien.
humiliate her terribly, but it’s right that she should know.
grotesque and fantastic folds the nameless horror of the dead man's
against her?  You knew her before, Arthur, apparently.
TRESPASSERS
JACK.
remorse that makes one walk on thorns, conscience that condemns, self-
the stars were right. Then came out of the earth the black spirits of
LADY WINDERMERE.  Go back to my husband, Mrs. Erlynne.  He belongs to you
began to give inward at the top; and they saw that it was balanced.
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Mais non, il n’est pas là.  Je viens justement
he averred, as he had never
and, as midnight sounded, he sallied forth. The owl beat against the
should never be admitted!  [_Sitting_.]
something in its expression that filled him with disgust and loathing.
face of the fainting man, and all stood trembling and nearly hypnotized
had in mystical marriage taken poverty as his bride: and with the soul of
stolid resignation about them all, as if they walked half in another
dragons, et mènera les lions par leurs crinières.
This dignified silence seems to produce an unpleasant effect.
the time. It was exactly one o'clock. He was quite calm, and felt his
and then Ammi saw what had happened. The stoutest cord had broken at
“No.”
prisoners said it had always existed and always would exist, hidden in
advantage of t
LORD GORING.  Love-letter?
outside tin stove-pipe.
think it would be a good thing if I was able to tell him that I had—well,
“_monstre charmant_” that couches in the porphyry-room of the Louvre.
to science to put us straight. The advantage of the emotions is that
“Wait for an answer,” he said, handing it to him, “and show the men in
[Who has been listening attentively.] But where did you deposit the
public charities since then.
out momentarily.
Ladies’ Gallery and hear him!  It will be a great occasion!
and Atalanta, who had cursed him, blessed him.
to give him but river water, so he is crying.  Swallow, Swallow, little
What it is, only God knows. In terms of matter I suppose the thing
see it at once.”
“Why can’t these American women stay in their own country? They are
over, but without any result. It was evident that, for that night at any
word-divisions being guessed at from traditional breaks in the phrase
magnetism, and slight luminosity, cooling slightly in powerful acids,
moving thing was left in that attic room, and that to leave anything
Well, ever since dear Uncle Jack first confessed to us that he had a
ght, I said it for your
the ancient tottering cottage where the trees first begin to get very
have been spoken and the Rites howled through at their Seasons.
was something wrong with the sunlight I saw above that miasmal brink.
LORD GORING.  Then, my dear Nanjac, you must certainly read between the
apportez-moi la tête de cet homme.
tarlike stuff that smells awful an' drips daown offen the aidges onto
place a visit.
have known me to be.
place where he could be cared for.
that she had only one child to look after. She remembered the phrase.
and mulattoes, largely West Indians or Brava Portuguese from the Cape
ain't like they be here--now it's goin' home--"
died of a broken heart.  His was the most ruined life know.
him, and to make his passing out a pretty terrible sight.
me.  You wrote me a letter last night in which you said you trusted me
door.
Isotta and the lord of Rimini, whose effigy was burned at Rome as the
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I did love you.  And you loved me.  You know you loved
wonderful things the Miller used to say about the unselfishness of true
one could quite be certain till later. None of the countryfolk seemed
and mend my barn-roof for me.’
souffrir . . . Princesse, princesse, ne dis pas de ces choses.
ning why it had not been fired. The thing itself, however,
all about was a mounting wind which seemed to sweep down in black,
the sound of the water against the vessel's sides became so unendurable
JACK.
f, and that nobody great or small
vice-admiralty's investigation brought out, and what was known of the
“It is extraordinary to me, Dorian,” said Hallward, “that you should
tously
LA VOIX DE SALOMÉ.  Ah! j’ai baisé ta bouche, Iokanaan, j’ai baisé ta
with her last Tuesday, and I really forgot all about it. We were to
pper classes, and probably lead to acts of violence in
its subtle symphonic arrangements of exotic flowers, and embroidered
“I am glad that you are going to Egypt at last, little Swallow,” said the
The same words that twenty years ago I wrote to her father! and how
the dim, dust-stained arcades.
sort of sin. I want to be better. I am going to be better. Tell me
lose no time. Good-bye, Harry. Good-bye, Dorian. Come and see me soon.
life was changeful, fluid, active, and that to allow it to be stereotyped
a l’air sombre?
the fringe on the roof of the standing democrat-wagon were unstirred.
the sky.
exquisite youth and beauty. Lying on the floor was a dead man, in
was quite unconscious of the effect she was producing. Her love was
he yielded? Was it to become a monstrous and loathsome thing, to be
strange sense of terror creeping over him.
ignorance.  It would be unfair to expect other people to be as remarkable
has ceased to be either a profit or a pleasure. It gives one position,
table. As Dorian Gray was lighting a half-burned candle that was
Over and over again Dorian used to read this fantastic chapter, and the
can see five counties.
what use is love at all?
talk well, which shows that talking is much the more difficult thing of
MYSTERY DERELICT FOUND AT SEA
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
ng was not
ALGERNON.
who glanced back at Dorian with a look of shy wonder in his rough
ordinary language of intercourse all over Palestine, as indeed all over
JACK.
y
there, sir, and you so comfortable here?”
When Ammi reached his house the horses and buggy had arrived before
LADY CHILTERN.  I was sure of it, Robert, I was sure of it.  But why did
[_Makes a sign to him to take her cloak off_, _which he does_.]
When he reached the library, he saw the bag and coat in the corner.
with which Wilbur and Old Whateley always paid their debts has yet been
Those without the telescope saw only an instant's flash of gray
fail, they subside gradually into a disappointed silence.
really is.  The shame would kill her.  [_Sinks down into a chair and
hellish diary, the more he was inclined to doubt the efficacy of any
everything we men have lost.
was
“My dear Basil,” said Dorian, “what have you told me? Simply that you
really mind, Basil, do you? You have often told me that you liked your
yellow stars, the Miller said to his wife that he would go down and see
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Every man of ambition has to fight his century with
and chisel. They gouged deeply this time, and as they pried away
arrived at the pest-ridden farmhouse about four o'clock. Used as the
LADY CHILTERN.  Lord Goring?
grappes de raisins noirs qui pendent des vignes d’Edom dans le pays des
in the railed family plot behind the farm, and had put therein what
country; and surely the very look of the dark realm is enough to stir
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Charming ball it has been!  Quite reminds me of old days.
your art.”
could not see was glimpsed by a timid windmill salesman from Bolton who
d the
All three horses outside, tied to a pair of shrivelled saplings by
obscure sort of fever and taken to the home of his family in Waterman
SALOMÉ.  Comme il est maigre aussi! il ressemble à une mince image
was not all. There had been another sound out there. A sort of liquid
in 1928, when the Dunwich horror came and went; yet at no time did
IOKANAAN.  Ange du Seigneur Dieu, que fais-tu ici avec ton glaive?  Qui
WILL BE
properties, and other things which puzzled men of science are wont to
many, but there have been some—have always insisted on living on, long
LORD GORING.  Most pretty women do.  But there is a fashion in pasts just
LORD GORING.  I hope not, father.
de vous reconduire.
red, and was crushed for ever
It was hard going, and Armitage had to be helped more than once. High
But how did we become engaged?
My brother is in the dining-room? I don’t know what it all means.
must serve to liberate Their bodies. The spells that preserved Them
the general life of a morbid community used to their queer ways and
[Inquiringly.] I beg your pardon?
Professor Webb had been engaged, forty-eight years before, in a tour
shifted. Nahum did not send her to the county asylum, but let her
that sort of thing, and he has got some woman in his rooms all the time.
Opposite was the Duchess of Harley, a lady of admirable good-nature and
insistence round the dusty gilt horns of the straggling woodbine,
R'lyeh under the waters, should rise and bring the earth again beneath
believe that anything contrary to natural law had occurred. No doubt
and he looked long at the sinister altarlike stone on the summit.
You have been on the brink of
the second act. They waited for that. If she failed there, there was
really significant digest. Average people in society and business--New
Gardner's in the morning, and had noticed the skunk-cabbages coming
merciful. Now and then Merwin's screams were answered faintly from the
inartistic manner that they hurt us by their crude violence, their
good society.
trouble,” said Dorian, turning on his heel and going slowly down the
scientific experiment. You go to hospitals and dead-houses, and the
glass of warm ale; ‘really I feel quite drowsy.  It is just like being in
that haunts Burne-Jones's women.
I am sorry you are leaving England so soon.  Pray call on us when you
Robert, men can love what is beneath them—things unworthy, stained,
the older members.  They call it being conceited.  Perhaps it is.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  You have to.  If you don’t . . . [_Rises from the sofa_.]
tell her, and I think I will, I shall tell her before I leave the
front of your house with flowers for you to walk on.  They are made for
Psychical Society, and Washington prepared a long letter to Messrs.
all. You must have overtired yourself. You had better not come down to
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Oh, damn sympathy.  There is a great deal too much of
not believe I would like to visit that country by night--at least not
Arthur Machen evokes in prose, and Clark Ashton Smith makes visible in
You have a curious influence over me. If I ever did a crime, I would
feet, and was considered a great beauty on account of her
decried, men feeling a natural instinct of terror about passions and
died of a broken heart.  His was the most ruined life know.
“Yes, she will.
his story to the stars, and now I see him.
cosmic geometry unknown to earth or the solar system. On each of the
in my health.  Now, to-night I am not at all well.  Been dining with my
the top-windows stood a lamp. He stopped and gave a peculiar knock.
common to two hellish rituals so many worlds of distance apart. What,
forehead, as if the disgrace with which he was threatened had already
unchanged, and yet his loathing of it was intensified. Gold hair, blue
here for?
laissé le cadavre ici?  Il faut l’emporter ailleurs.  Je ne veux pas le
So he crept downstairs and opened the front door quite softly, and went
obstacle. Then, as September approached, the clouds began to clear.
it together as a ballad; in the prose poem of the
t is the fulfilment of a prophecy: for every work of art is the
before. The fruit was growing to phenomenal size and unwonted gloss,
seem to think that they are improper, and either look shocked, which is
manner, and then produced a letter, which he handed to his master. “Her
had taken the button-hole out of his coat, he seemed to hesitate.
When his servant entered, he looked at him steadfastly and wondered if
again.  The thing is soiled for me.  You should have kept it and not
who had _dreamed_ not only the figure and exact hieroglyph
They from the air told me at Sabbat that it will be years before I
“Only when one is young,” she answered. “When an old woman like myself
*       *       *       *       *
LORD GORING.  Well, at the worst it would simply be a psychological
masters, or that the common bulk of life and substance walks alone.
heavily on the stone pavement, barking both his knees severely, and
Oh! yes! a great many. From the top of one of the hills quite close one
must look for a good chimney-pot,” and he determined to fly away.
“Every day. I couldn’t be happy if I didn’t see him every day. He is
such dowered with outside properties and obedient to outside laws.
London so suddenly.  Our season is almost over.
again and beg to be admitted, so that I might share in what I was
that blooms in the meadow before the mower comes with his scythe.  But go
however, the fire caught him.
Of course I admit that the faults were all on my side. But I must say
completed, will be of great international value.  You know the sort of
them.  I wanted to meet you.  It is quite true.  You know what a woman’s
sent him flying home. Mrs.
edited the correspondence in corroboration of what he had latently
ALGERNON.
angerous idea.  It is--all great ideas are dangerous.
Dorian started to his feet. A terrible hope fluttered past him. He
not wonder that the foreigners would not stay, for this was no region
over the grass and making it silver--would all be tainted for me, and
or should be, the same as the canons of art. Form is absolutely
and whereas it had been a good seven feet across the day before, it
clear as crystal!” and the King doubled his salary a second time.  “What
rs they followed the great morbidity
of the huddled men, a sense of doom and abnormality.... It was no
ACT III.  _The Library of Lord Goring’s House in Curzon Street_.
starving the soul.
certainly, if you wish it.
whispered that bat-winged devils flew up out of caverns in inner
MASON, Butler to Sir Robert Chiltern
self-sacrifice are concerned, men are infinitely beyond us.
in his youth. Lavinia Whateley had no known husband, but according
Well, in the first place girls never marry the men they flirt with.
There was nothing more. No one dared do anything, and no one knew
that it is a mistake to think that the passion one feels in creation is
temptations that we had not the courage to yield to. Youth! Youth!
need of medical aid that Dr. Hartwell was summoned at once. As the
house_.
What a fearful liar you are, Jack. I have not been called back to town
People say the colour of the neighboring herbage is not quite right
I haven’t heard any one call me.
ain't like they be here--now it's goin' home--"
trod earth's fields, and where They still tread them, and why no
for the sojourn of a night, or for a few hours of a night in which
existed.”
golden no longer,” said the Mayor in fact, “he is little better than a
ABOUT A GOOD WOMAN
Basil Hallward had painted of him. He started back as if in surprise.
to recognise that the soul of a man is unknowable, is the ultimate
at all about marriage. The subject has not even been touched on.
What railway station?
great iron stove, which, fortunately for him, was not lit, and had to
would have to fight for your victories. As it is, they are brought to
followed each in turn, and when he seeks to mourn for _Thyrsis_ or to
sea in 1925 had broken him. He had told her no more than he had told
own master; had at least always been so, till I met Dorian Gray.
ADMIRATION
JACK.
disguise, it was his habit to frequent, he would think of the ruin he
only half-heartedly that they searched--vainly, as it proved--for some
had knocked him down. Two Lascar sailors at once helped him to his
the portents of storm.
As soon as Campbell had left, he went upstairs. There was a horrible
dreadful of them!  Only dull people are brilliant at breakfast.  And then
all. Goodbye, Lady Bracknell. So pleased to have seen you.
charming exaggeration of friendship. He had listened to them, laughed
are not of our cosmos. This was no fruit of such worlds and suns as
Actually, the horrified pause of the men was of comparatively brief
upon him one day and departed pale and puzzled, he was fully six and
course if you refuse I will go and do it myself.’
“I never said that they had,” replied the Rocket; “I said that they
about to-night?
and the hitched horses pawed and whinnied in increasing frenzy. It was
s long as I live. I am quite serious. I don’t offer
one sometimes learns that one has been through Dunwich.
fascinating. The worse their rhymes are, the more picturesque they
doubted that I had a brother? [Seizes hold of Algernon.] Dr. Chasuble,
trous noirs laissés par des flambeaux sur une tapisserie de Tyr.  On
Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face,
RD GORING.  No, father.
“For you I would throw over anybody, Duchess,” said Lord Henry with a
In a short time I became convinced of his absolute sincerity, for he
cannot tell—though I feel so much beneath him, I don’t feel humble. I
Cecily and Gwendolen from hearing the details of a terrible public
proposal.
is that your moods are rather meaningless. You can’t have forgotten
one in their meaning and manifestation--is really an idyll, though it
Naaman.
that I think that Brother John’s coldness to me is peculiarly painful.
The Remarkable Rocket                     87
Johansen's address, I discovered, lay in the Old Town of King Harold
Gwendolen! Darling! [Offers to kiss her.]
indescribable scene, she began to churn the lethal waters; whilst on
absolutely no respect for dyed hair.  [LORD AUGUSTUS _looks round
not an explosion, as so many others of the party vowed. Yet the outcome
religion—these are the two things that govern us. And yet—”
Dorian sighed and lit a cigarette. “Half an hour!” he murmured.
“What nonsense people talk about happy marriages!” exclaimed Lord
In the evening I asked old people in Arkham about the blasted heath,
as he suspected, they were used as a cipher in a modern language.
you are going to die.”
LORD DARLINGTON.  I won’t hear of its raining on your birthday!
JACK.
Gorgon . . . I don’t really know what a Gorgon is like, but I am quite
“It is simply because she remembers you when you were a little girl,
Lady Bracknell, who has fixed her with a stony glare. Miss Prism grows
and some of them will doubtless linger even when half the hollows are
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What letter?
world.
You are under some strange mistake.
barren boughs, so there were Christians before Christ.  For that we
go and speak to the other ghost as soon as it was daylight. Accordingly,
LORD WINDERMERE.  Why?
LADY MARKBY.  Perhaps the people are a little jaded.  I have often
covering the same period as that in which young Wilcox had had his
. I know it pains you to talk about our father. But it only pains
Lady Jedburgh
[Bitterly.] People who live entirely for pleasure usually are.
have been rejected.
your sin?
ceased. He sat upright in bed, astonished to find himself at home and
difficult to marry as a large nose; men don’t like them.  Good-night,
grinning at the doorway of the dusty greenroom, making elaborate
you that hideous pipe, or Ned Langton, who makes fun of you for smoking
fantastic postures on the ragged mattresses. The twisted limbs, the
Miller never gave little Hans anything in return, though he had a hundred
consciousness. There is a sense of spectral whirling through liquid
7
can say just what is the matter with Dunwich; though old legends speak
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  That’s quite right, dear.  Crying is the refuge of
talk about the queer earth noises reached clear to Arkham--what walked
nothing that either Plato or Christ had said that could not be
the people around, who shunned all Gardners now. No use, either, in
clouded father would say. Then there flashed across the visitor's mind
suspect, but God knows he soon saw enough!
a strange feeling that fate had in store for me exquisite joys and
spectator: an ideal spectator indeed, and one to whom it is given 'to
must have employed a cutting bureau, for the number of extracts was
it is not to be wondered at that the men preferred to stay on the edge
staccato signs for them to come in. They turned to each other and
JACK.
men trudged out to the Frye place at the head of the glen. It was
LADY BRACKNELL.
restlessness and oppression; a touch of the unreal and the grotesque,
Greece gave us, they plaited with garlands the leaves of the bitter
things to him; and I love the story St. Mark tells us about the Greek
to show their sympathy; or, if I desired to entertain them, to invite
You’ll never break off our engagement again, Cecily?
came to the poor house and looked in.  The boy was tossing feverishly on
salon of 1926. And so numerous are the recorded troubles in insane
MRS. CHEVELEY.  It was his last romance.  His last but one, to do him
of wine.  I went down the primrose path to the sound of flutes.  I lived
conceive. If I say that my somewhat extravagant imagination yielded
Dr. Armitage slept, but was partly delirious the next day. He made
them.  Well, good-bye: I have enjoyed our conversation very much, I
skeletal. There were also a small deer and a large dog in about the
MABEL CHILTERN.  You did?
wich is indeed ridiculously old--older by
CECIL GRAHAM.  It is something very particular.  It will interest you
carriage.
Darlington.  We can always remain so as long as you don’t—
the handkerchief away, and called out to one of the farm-servants to
made faces at him, he decided to keep her locked in the attic. By July
Everybody likes him, and I ... love him.
gain the whole world and lose—how does the quotation run?—his own
LADY BASILDON.  Terribly trivial!  What did your man talk about?
eighteen months their intimacy lasted. Campbell was always either at
How absurdly English you are!  The English think that a
It was quite dark inside, for the window was small and half-obscured
think it is right to tell you quite frankly that, had I known who you
do now is to fight the thing out.
the Tapestry Chamber, the door of which happened to be open, she fancied
en-party? You don’t, but it is nice
“I shudder at the thought of being free.”
face is gittin' to hev that colour sometimes towards night ... an' it
It was Rodriguez the Portuguese who climbed up the foot of the monolith
the shaft of phosphorescence from the well was getting brighter and
[_Enter_ LORD CAVERSHAM, _an old gentleman of seventy_, _wearing the
or be respectable. Youth! There is nothing like it. It’s absurd to talk
a cart like the horse, or look after the sheep like the collie-dog, that
proceeding further he had to retreat to another room and return
IN AFFECTION
stricken friend, "It come from some place whar things ain't as they is
oral ritual among the swamp cult-worshipers his men had arrested, he
of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred which the initiated might read as they
to other eyes. It had been locked, and I did not find the key till
had sent for, “Alan, in a locked room at the top of this house, a room
the chief engineer to keep a sharp watch on him. I would hate to think
“‘Oh! they will come to you,’ said the Miller, ‘but you must take more
telephones rang tremulously. Those who took down their receivers
spectroscope both samples gave off an unknown spectrum, in which many
Eton to-morrow, and then, if you behave yourself, no one will annoy
Merriman, Butler
Tunisians plucked at the strained strings of monstrous lutes, while
e abnormal growth, and
swishin' saound got very fur off--on the rud towards Wizard Whateley's
This was all, together with the picture of the hellish image; but what
giant shape he had raved of in delirium. That he really knew nothing of
wainscoting down a narrow secret corridor, Washington following with a
behind the curtain and glides from the room L._]
“I have got through all that,” said Dorian, shaking his head and
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I wish I had seen that one sin of my youth burning
n, and very remarkable.  Why, anybody can have common
sea in 1925 had broken him. He had told her no more than he had told
o'clock, when they had a light supper.
LADY MARKBY.  Well, like all stout women, she looks the very picture of
meant to do anything then and there. It was getting toward sunset, and
not always worth while answering one.
Lady Narborough,” said Lord Henry. “She is the one link between us and
Callicles tells of 'the triumph of the sweet persuasive lyre,' and the
He ran freely about the fields and hills, and accompanied his mother
wants, his desires, or his prejudices. However, I don’t propose to
which the Church is so fond--so rightly fond, I dare say--for in life as
through it all again.  Actions are the first tragedy in life, words are
,” and
When night came again the barricading was repeated, though there was
none else.
nd seemed to be taking out partitions as he and
Ernest! My own Ernest! I felt from the first that you could have no
“I am so sorry for it all, Dorian,” said Lord Henry as he entered. “But
“No; I don’t think so.”
MRS. MARCHMONT.  Going on to the Hartlocks’ to-night, Margaret?
must find you a nice wife. Lord Henry, don’t you think that Mr. Gray
What on earth do you do there?
and will one day mirror in marble those nightmares and fantasies which
MRS. ERLYNNE.  You are right.  What could I know of such things?  Don’t
people who pay their bills who want that, Uncle George, and I never pay
In February the McGregor boys from Meadow Hill were out shooting
stand that had always looked to him like the work of some strange
Thank you, Algernon. It is very thoughtful of you. [Rising, and
beautiful work of art I shall be able to rob malice of its venom, and
This noise is extremely unpleasant. It sounds as if he was having an
first, as the mist that hangs over the river—pale as the feet of the
“I am not the same, Harry.”
unoccupied hours. In a moment of mental abstraction, for which I never
house_.
LADY BRACKNELL.
match-girl.  She has let her matches fall in the gutter, and they are all
was it?" He whispered, and the cleft, bulging lips were just able to
been dancing with!  I should be quite jealous if I were you!  Is she a
emotions.
That is the only thing for her to do.  That is the only thing for any
Darlington?
Ammi would give me no added particulars of this scene, but the shape
LORD DARLINGTON.  It would be rather a good name for the modern husband.
Only poetry or madness could do justice to the noises heard by
Algerian pastilles in a pierced copper brazier, he bathed his hands and
The wind shook some blossoms from the trees, and the heavy
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Well, make it Tuesday, sir, make it Tuesday.
they reached the end of the room he stopped, and muttered some words she
you can bring your drinks.”
your friend.  But what is the good of friendship if one cannot say
long.  I assure you, my dear, that on several occasions after I was first
d’argent.
he looked out.  “How selfish I have
“Harry is never wrong, Duchess.”
and a half as a human being. But the looked-for terror did not appear.
in this analysis case gave the same odd bands at first, though later
the ancient tottering cottage where the trees first begin to get very
two beautiful jewels in place of those you have given away.  The ruby
help, as he was our oldest and best friend.  Later on, after that
He invented a facile excuse, and having taken the vacant seat next to
too near the splotch of greyish dust.
it?” exclaimed Hallward, laughing.
I know where Arthur keeps his bank book—in one of the drawers of that
apparently, had told the truth when he said that it was wholly
embroidered with gold, a splendid piece of late seventeenth-century
those deep ravines, and artists shiver as they paint thick woods whose
its myriads of people, its sordid sinners, and its splendid sins, as
conversation after seven.  It makes me talk in my
servants at Selby, and going through his correspondence. At some of the
LADY WINDERMERE.  Rather curious, isn’t it?  [_L._]
“My dear Harry, why?”
time two policemen had arrived; and Dr. Morgan, meeting them in the
promised him, he walked quickly in the direction of the quay. Here and
fact, not since he had so frightened pretty Lady Barbara Modish by means
was usually sacrificed. There was talk of a complaint to the Society
dangerous place, as it was full of deep holes, and there poor little Hans
large yew-tree.
said, or even in the simple idioms he used; but seemed vaguely linked
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Mais non, il n’est pas là.
time.
is mentioned a dread of something abnormal.
heavy odour of opium met him. He heaved a deep breath, and his nostrils
J’ai une émeraude, une grande émeraude ronde que le favori de César m’a
fellow-prisoners. The image on the monolith, of course, was carefully
total; so that nothing was left to do but go back to the laboratory and
[Picture: Woman opening window and seeing bird]
Your duty as a gentleman calls you back.
*       *       *       *       *
to say, who like himself are dynamic forces--Christ says that they are
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Elle est très belle ce soir.
pleasures?”
[_Shakes hands with_ DUCHESS.]  And now—[_goes up stage_] Lady
LORD GORING.  Then do tell her I want to talk to her particularly.  I
Nor is it to be thought [ran the text as Armitage mentally
of the silent houses. The crimson spot of a prowling hansom
the steep green side of the hill. Then he handed the instrument to
and wife are left alone_.  LADY CHILTERN _stands like some one in a
and circumstance, but as his imagination had created it for him, as it
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_After a moment’s reflection_.]  No, I don’t think it is
JACK.
young innocent-looking girl with beautiful _dark_ hair.
as a study when he grew somewhat older. It was a large,
LORD GORING.  It seems to me that I am a little in the way here.
maintenant il s’est tué!  Ah! n’a-t-il pas prédit qu’un malheur allait
aristocratic art of doing absolutely nothing. He had two large town
were a hundred. Some day you will be in love yourself. Then you will
give up going to the Berkshires.  However, it is always nice to be
Sir Simon may have shown in the corridor at night, in point of law he
I must go and lie down. You will excuse me, won’t you?”
“but I am glad you don’t think I am heartless. I am nothing of the
the noise of the cattle subsided to a pitiful moaning, and a great
ignorant as they were, the creatures held with surprizing consistency
Salomé, qu’attendez-vous?
Lord Henry sipped his champagne in a meditative manner. “At what
statement of anyone when he said he was disturbed about certain
farmhouse. In the course of time callers professed to hear sounds
“The husbands of very beautiful women belong to the criminal classes,”
ous le jurez, tétrarque?
men were little more affected, though four cases of vague description
their grotesque tales of it ever reached the people of the countryside.
Babe," his _début_ as "Guant Gibeon, the Blood-sucker of Bexley Moor,"
"HE HEARD SOMEBODY GALLOPING AFTER HIM"
at Sydney University, the Royal Society, and the Museum in College
decisively to the faltering group of frightened rustics.
JACK.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_With a gesture of despair_.]  Oh! how do I know?
am working, and never listen either, and it must be dreadfully tedious
ALGERNON.
her tittered.
table close to the open window. It was an exquisite day. The warm air
which faint drumming and red flame were noted on the distant hills.
with his dog-eared schoolbooks. On the wall behind it was hanging the
[In a bored manner.] Bread and butter, please. Cake is rarely seen at
studio towards Basil Hallward.
see with terrible vividness the damp Cyclopean city of slimy green
an impossibility in a normal world. Only the least fraction was really
development by any formal acceptance of creed or system, or of
gulfs of infinity, of dizzying rides through reeling universes on a
Humanity sprang right out of the imagination and can only be realised by
sense, provided that they have no imagination.  But I have imagination,
I doubt very much if Ammi consciously lied to me, and I do not think
out, and each time that she did so she threw into the air seven pink
LORD GORING.  Oh! don’t use big words.  They mean so little.
name?” asked Lord Henry, walking across the
blushes, it is a very bad sign. Ah! Lord Henry, I wish you would tell
sent back to Eton that very night by his guardians, in floods of tears.
I am interested to hear she does not love you.  How long could you love a
spend a whole day settling and resettling in their cases the various
“I give it to you.”
have come to the wrong man. Go to some of your friends. Don’t come to
frilled at the wrists and neck, and a rusty dagger. Towards evening a
person doing a wonderful act of self-sacrifice, doing it spontaneously,
_The action of the play takes place within twenty-four hours_, _beginning
conscious of sharing with the less highly organized forms of existence.
advanced. There was a horrible brittleness, and dry fragments were
CECILY.
at the bottom they saw a fearsome sight. All the farm was shining
silent corners, to mock him from secret places, to whisper in his ear
[Enter Canon Chasuble.]
quivered with pleasure. When he entered, a young man with smooth yellow
moment have to pay for it, by doing some other act of shame—oh!
on honeycomb.
did not come down again.
I’m sorry if we are a little late, Algernon, but I was obliged to call
nuisance.  I can’t find any one in this house to
there is really no end to the consolations that women find in modern
ALGERNON.
Catholic communion, and certainly the Roman ritual had always a great
theatre, it seemed to him that he had grown years older.
wanderings were very startling indeed, including frantic appeals
and had always taken a prominent part in the local elections, so he knew
of us.
for help and protection.  To have made such an appeal would have been
You will wait and have some tea, won’t you?
“Poor little Hans was afraid to say anything to this, and early the next
questions seemed highly out of place to his visitor, especially those
to be very proud—I certainly struggled to the door. There, of course, I
husban' as ye kin find this side of Aylesbury; an' ef ye knowed as much
does for others.’
absolutely necessary to me.”
excellent reputation, and Johansen is described as a sober and
once to ply his informant with questions. Having noted and copied an
morning the Miller brought his sheep round to the cottage, and Hans
extra bar across it.
nighted woods like pestilential tempests from the gulfs of hell.
reveal itself most perfectly through what was intended to desecrate or
pity of it! the pity of it!
blasphemy lumbered upon its eldritch course. _Negotium perambulans in
future.  Wish I could say the same for you, sir.  [_To_ LORD GORING.]
he would tell his friends no more than he had told the admiralty
MRS. MARCHMONT.  I am afraid Lord Goring is in the camp of the enemy, as
spoke and stood looking out at the garden. Campbell made no answer.
forward, started a hare. It bolted for a thicket of alders.
about the throats of the gray, unshaven old man and his
howls and squawking ecstasies that tore and reverberated through those
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Humph!  Never know when you are serious or not.
Twilight had now fallen, and lanterns were brought from the house.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
“I must keep an opportunity for retreat.”
the people they slander. In this country, it is enough for a man to
any demands on life.  In all that I have said I am simply concerned with
The painter stared in amazement. It was so unlike Dorian to speak like
of more vital issue, of larger scope.
aloud; misery that could find no voice; sorrow that was dumb.  I have
but at a considerable distance from it. One figure, he said, seemed
[_Genially_.]  Ah, nowadays people marry as often as they
all get damp if I don’t stop it up.  How lucky you mentioned it!  It is
ever having caught the glint of sunlight. On the gentler slopes there
Narborough. I shan’t go upstairs. I shall go home. I must go home.”
everyone knew from the account must be Nahum's, the darkness had been
attraction for him.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Even you are not rich enough, Sir Robert, to buy back
ect a quickened sense of
provincial.”
tubes and dry brushes, seeking for something. Yes, it was for the long
OF
One day they paid Nahum a visit; but having no love of wild tales and
Hallward bit his lip. “If Dorian wishes it, of course you must stay.
most serious tragedies. I am sorry I told you now. I don’t care what
Difference of object does not alter singleness of passion. It merely
never useful.
The six men drove out in a democrat-wagon, following Ammi's buggy, and
SALOMÉ.  Il faut que je le regarde de près.
course.... I knew his mother intimately. I believe I was at her
wildest—rage within me.  And I know why you are here.  My husband sent
now?  This woman has the place that belongs by right to you.  Oh!
court of inquiry. Then, driven ahead by curiosity in their captured
his friends, or thought that they were so, he himself would creep
Newport boat; falling suddenly, as witnesses said, after having been
be quite alone. I hate the stage. I might mimic a passion that I do not
country; and surely the very look of the dark realm is enough to stir
to men, and vocal qualities peculiar to beasts; and it is terrible
the well water was no longer good. It had an evil taste that was not
of dark blue trunks or trousers on. Wilbur was never subsequently seen
Windermere, don’t say such terrible things.  You don’t know how terrible
that the body was there, and he hurried to the door and put his hand
am making the most delightful plans for your future.
too badly, and all repetition is anti-spiritual.  When one returns to the
firmly, "and I will ask the angel to have mercy on you."
curtain of flame, stood a great granite monolith some eight feet in
brocade in Wardour Street and had to bargain for hours for it. Nowadays
country often dine with the best families.”
They worshiped, so they said, the Great Old Ones who lived ages before
“Upon my word, Dorian, Miss Sibyl knows how to pay compliments.”
sofa, and a look of pain came into his face.
shouldn’t say.  In fact, I usually say what I really think.  A great
so potently at unopened and archaic vistas. No recognized school of
lose their healing power, and their power of communicating joy.
CECILY.
DUMBY.  So could I.  But it’s so difficult to meet one.
seen at midnight on the top of Sentinel Hill where the old table-like
Too awed even to hint theories, the seven shaking men trudged back
most sensible conclusions.
Cabinet secret for a large sum of money, and that that was the origin of
I _do_ mean something else.
“Kiss me, Mother,” said the girl. Her flowerlike lips touched the
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Arthur, you loved me once.
painted panels and its tarnished gilt mouldings, in which he had so
l’escalier_.]
dal wave of
ng his hat.] You are my little cousin Cecily, I’m sure.
Dorian heaved a sigh of relief as he saw the gardener approaching.
winter.  The birds did not care to sing in it as there were no children,
ears since I have been in London for the Season, and I must say Society
guide. At the end of the passable road they alighted, and for miles
saurians; and terminated in ridgy-veined pads that were neither hooves
stars had come round again to the right positions in the cycle of
love him.”
table lit up the delicate china and hammered silver of the service at
JACK.
LADY WINDERMERE.  Are _all_ men bad?
it was a rough parallel in all essential features of the bestial thing
is quite right. I did not think so at first, but I admit it now. The
nocturnal impressions appear here and there, always between March
. . . and that sort of thing is enormously on the increase. The amount
the club for days.”
made true? Or was there some other, more terrible reason? He shuddered,
to the central idea of their loathsome faith.
joy having its bitterness and the memories of pleasure their pain.
or
1
LORD WINDERMERE.  What?
How thoughtless of me. I should have remembered that when one is going
who live out of town are so absolutely uncivilized. Civilization is not
night from your ball.  Now, I wonder would you give it to me?  Lord
to know her.
Hérode.  N’oubliez pas que vous avez juré.
plative Sphinx, or
glad to say, under the impression that she is attending a more than
vu sur une montagne parlant avec des anges.
Can you doubt it, Miss Fairfax?
deeds of almost unnamable violence and perversity. The old gentry,
the people around, who shunned all Gardners now. No use, either, in
as they ought not to do at night.
pas regarder les choses.  Je ne veux pas que les choses me regardent.
crucifiera quand il viendra à Rome.  Je suis sûr que César le crucifiera.
gossip. Thaddeus, an especially sensitive youth, suffered the most.
“I shall be charmed. But won’t you miss your train?” said Dorian Gray
coming close to him so as to betray him with a kiss; the friend who still
to use the tainted supply, drinking it as listlessly and mechanically
n’est pas tout.  Dans un coffret
vulgar, for everybody in good society holds exactly the same opinions.
Sibyl. A faint echo of his love came back to him. He repeated her name
Much more so than her husband, though he is a typical Englishman, always
CECILY.
simply a born artist. I sat in the dingy box absolutely enthralled. I
imperceptibly to silence. Lavinia sobbed, but Wilbur only chuckled
unloading their waggons. A white-smocked carter offered him some
Nature, is there?
s. Even the Providence Art Club, anxious to preserve its
JACK.
HÉRODIAS.  Faites-le taire.  Je ne veux pas entendre sa voix.
shutters, Mr. Otis rode off to Bexley, a village about four miles away,
to the Frye farmyard, monstrous prints covered the bare patches of
of what you really might be. There was so much in you that charmed me
kitchen, for even the small piece refused to grow cool. On the trip
are in this
open. I dare say it will be better after lunch, when we get to new
little time he returned and said that he could not find Miss Virginia
decoration! Even to read of the luxury of the dead was wonderful.
vous appartiennent.  Qu’est-ce que c’est, Salomé.
grey desolation that sprawled open to the sky like a great spot eaten
those who have placed their heaven in this earth, I have found in it not
he was thrust back against the wall, with a brutal hand round his
presumptuous. On an occasion of this kind it becomes more than a moral
take a chance. It's invisible--I knew it would be--but there's a powder
"Good evening; I will go and ask papa to get the twins an extra week's
leaves one unsatisfied. What more can one want? Yes, Dorian, you will
I am always smart! Am I not, Mr. Worthing?
mist, extinguishing Washington Otis's candle as he passed, and so
c’est terrible aussi . . .
ripened, and Nahum vowed that his orchards were prospering as never
abasement that punishes, the misery that puts ashes on its head, the
re would be no use in saying
meant.  In opposition to their tithing of each separate day into the
[Moving to sofa and kneeling upon it.] My dear fellow, what on earth is
comfort it is more easy to learn the lessons of humility than it is for
and he and the boys were in a constant state of nervous tension.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  That what?
down the table and caught a bright answering glance.
telepathic instant? The Thing of the idols, the green, sticky spawn of
“No, no,” he cried petulantly. “Thank you, Leaf. That will do.”
then, having, as it were, caught their colour and satisfied his
was merely the record of his own life, not as he had lived it in act
to him C._], you fancy because I have no father or mother that I am alone
worked for, all that I have built up.  Is it fair, Arthur?
[Illustration: "SUDDENLY THERE LEAPED OUT TWO FIGURES."]
holocaust of ecstasy and freedom. Meanwhile the cult, by appropriate
herself in. Is it?
knock and asked me my business without rising. When I told him who I
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_With a look of joy and triumph_.]  A seat in the
divan, he buried his face in the cushions, as though he was praying.
throw their caps over mills that can raise the wind for them.
also how to interpret sorrow better.  I have said that behind sorrow
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Give me a week—three days!
John!
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Well, at any rate, may I know if it is politics or
what she wished you to think. . . .
Bedchamber, and dreamed of Virginia.
carried always in his pocket. Then, indeed, I succeeded in opening it,
I need not say that my task does not end there.  It would be
have the same life, Harry. And you must not say these extravagant
THE CANTERVILLE GHOST
I am engaged to be married to Cecily, Aunt Augusta.
he was always obliged to take various defensive measures against their
IOKANAAN.  Je ne veux pas te regarder.  Je ne te regarderai pas.  Tu es
mad delightful follies. There was romance in every place. But Venice,
"That is all nonsense," cried Washington Otis; "Pinkerton's Champion
now if Sir John was not so painfully personal in his observations, and a
capitaine.  Je regrette qu’il soit mort . . . Enfin, pourquoi avez-vous
_First F’cap. 8vo Edition_                              _1917_
of St. Elmo ... and all the while the shaft of phosphorescence from
other Eskimos knew little, and which they mentioned only with shudders,
their wild, weird stories of whispered magic have given them. Their
sudden siege to the brain and calls on us to yield. After a time the
“Of your shield, Harry, not of your spear.”
extremely foolish for parting with it, but I am not like the rest of the
pièce de monnaie.  On dirait une toute petite fleur d’argent.
ld have made provision for us. Don’t speak
The aperture was black with a darkness almost material. That
LORD WINDERMERE.  Child, if you did such a thing, there’s not a woman in
before breakfast was half over, he stood up on the hearthrug, put his
Dr. Armitage knew, from the repeated failures of his colleagues, that
in the brain that everything takes place.  We know now that we do not see
HÉRODE.  De qui donc a-t-il parlé?
He knows you not, ye heavenly powers.'
with you?  Let her remain your mistress!  You are well suited to each
their eyes met. She used to wonder if he suspected anything. The
sounds and stenches from afar, while early explorers noted with horror
be put into any words. Their shapes were monstrous, and the horse had
concerning the other side of whose ancestry the country folk might--and
father, the conservatory—there is some one there I want you to talk to.
poles. I shall go to those poles when the earth is cleared off, if
he heerd the whippoorwills so laoud in Col' Spring Glen he couldn't
they were determined to discover his secret.
“‘I am very sorry,’ answered the Miller, ‘but it is my new lantern, and
said: "My dear sir, your charming little daughter rendered my unlucky
Immersion!
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Your wife has sent her a card?
her for your lover, who abandoned you in turn.
locked and windowlessly clapboarded since Wilbur's birth, had been
fastening itself on her that ought not to be--someone must make it
Dunwich braced themselves tensely against some imponderable menace with
be put into any words. Their shapes were monstrous, and the horse had
uildings, and even
Argentine Canal scheme, of which I dare say you have heard.  And I found
with you?
was nothing of this earth, but a piece of the great outside; and as
LADY CHILTERN.  We were at school together, Mrs. Cheveley.
and because love is more beautiful than hate.  In his own entreaty to the
One must have fed itself and escaped, and probably there was another
other. I can’t describe to you what I felt at that moment. It seemed to
reception, and one wants something that will encourage conversation,
the old house would have ventured forth for any earthly reward. With
rejection of the evidence of the senses as by the primitive simplicity
reek of overt viciousness and of half-hidden murders, incests, and
“That mad-cat is sure to be there. They won’t have her in this place
back they stopped at Ammi's to rest, and seemed thoughtful when Mrs.
a train of ideas it started in my mind! Here were new treasuries of
entire case, and could find no convincing common element to link the
have been brought up on the severe, and I believe immortal, principles
with a brooding fear he dared not even mention for many years to come.
bouche.  Il y avait une âcre saveur sur tes lèvres.  Était-ce la saveur
I expected a more enthusiastic welcome, especially considering it is
they told me the place was evil. They told me this in Arkham, and
materialism of Mrs. Otis, were naturally extremely annoying, but what
JACK.
madness my coming.  I must go at once.  As for Lord Darlington—Oh! here
now that we have finally got rid of this Mr. Bunbury, may I ask, Mr.
ALGERNON.
But in London people are so prejudiced. Here, one should never make
wondered if all the objects of the professor's questioning felt as
intent, though its impressionistic execution forbade a very clear
of dreams to heighten and continue the mystery at my uncle's expense.
balustrade and peering down into the black seething well of darkness.
irresponsible. He charmed his listeners out of themselves, and they
degenerated.  Really, this horrid House of Commons quite ruins our
had brought him back. His kiss burned again upon her mouth. Her eyelids
"Did your Luther take accaount o' whar them big tracks led tew? No?
vivid, in their intense actuality of impression, than all the gracious
LORD GORING.  For God’s sake, don’t!  There is some one there.  Some one
women as well as men; but when we men love women, we love them knowing
determined to return to his own castle.  When he arrived
the _Alert_ under way. Slowly, amidst the distorted horrors of that
knew he would be meddling with terrible powers, yet saw that there was
success his talent promises.
WINDERMERE.  _Their eyes meet_.  _Then she turns_, _and exit C. followed
church.’
too fast fer the place, fer ef it busts quarters or gits aout afore ye
visible ritual.
have come and departed. It is not because of anything that can be seen
qu’ils sont morts.
and they galloped on to the railway station. There Mr. Otis inquired of
Well, Cecily is a darling.
_tableau_ was interesting.
it brutal, and to fools that they might turn it into a synonym for folly.
such objects, considered in their capacity of being able to
before you leave England, Mrs. Cheveley?
the four doors in sight, only one was locked, and on this he tried
d’ivoire.  Elle est comme une pomme de grenade coupée par un couteau
between us now.  She has found me out, Arthur, she has found me out.
coming in, Robert?
Enna, had ever done.
ad been his greatest playmate.
all the countryside.
of light.  The world is made by it, and yet the world cannot understand
of years rolled by. They knew all that was occurring in the universe,
highly organized, and to be highly organized is, I should fancy, the
some stranger. He had that dislike of being stared at, which comes on
everything. There had been a frantic shriek from the yard then, but
“Why, indeed?” whispered a Daisy to his neighbour, in a soft, low voice.
ominously in the wind. Nahum's second son Thaddeus, a lad of fifteen,
sorrow revealed to them.
have, though,” she added, with a sickly leer.
[To Jack.] Darling!
bracelet_, _but fails_.]
expression_.  _Then comes over to his wife_, _and puts his hand on her
will do.  In modern life nothing produces such an effect as a good
the delight I really felt at our meeting.  And that, in the views and
men were little more affected, though four cases of vague description
thing to chase the nameless entity, but quite another to find it.
them. But you must not think I don’t like good music. I adore it, but I
Well, my dear fellow, you need not eat as if you were going to eat it
ALGERNON.
symbolic figure, but his relations were to the passion of his age and its
first analyzed it? Was it not Buonarotti who had carved it in the
or not the others were precisely like him. No one could read the old
hundred mongrel celebrants in the throng, the police relied on their
these speculations are profitless.
houses, but preferred to live in chambers as it was less trouble, and
ALGERNON.
preceding winter in Cairo, was lying a note from Lord Henry, and beside
viewless force and indescribable stench swept down from the hill to
hing
I will. I feel better already.
don’t think I am heartless. Do you?”
"Well, so does the family doctor for that matter, Lord Canterville. But
make it part of me, to accept it without complaint, fear, or reluctance.
gladly died!  [_Moves away to sofa R._]
and in such abundance that extra barrels were ordered to handle the
some cigarettes. No, don’t mind the cigarettes—I have some. Basil, I
came to see me they would have to make their faces still longer in order
hear strange things a-rushin' an' a-talkin' in the air daown thar ef ye
stars.  She was three feet and a half in diameter, and made of the very
What the invention of oil-painting was to the Venetians, the face of
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  God grant it!  God grant it!
keeping straight on to town. He did not wish to cross the blighted,
whole life—that such love you will never meet—and that if you throw it
Indeed, to destroy a body must be far less horrible than what you are
degraded. Of course, you have your position, and your wealth, and all
particu
hell. Had my uncle referred to these cases by name instead of merely
and will one day mirror in marble those nightmares and fantasies which
danger by fire.
y one person now that could be said to be in
“‘All right!’ said the Doctor; and he ordered his horse, and his big
philosophy. One hardly knew at times whether one was reading the
by acid in the woods and fields? It lay largely to the north of the
till, the East End is a very important problem,” remarked Sir Thomas
[_Enter_ MABEL CHILTERN.  _She joins the group_.]
“Why?”
splash--water--it must have been the well. He had left Hero untied
to view a frightened group of more than a dozen men, running, shouting,
occupations; nor was her leisure much taken up by household cares in a
It was then that I heard the story, and as the rambling voice scraped
success I am!”
skunk-cabbage had been very like one of the anomalous bands of light
Meanwhile no more must be told. There was a secret which even torture
explanations for you—and all of them different.
a deepening of the greenish tinge, whilst in the tail it was manifest
“Dear me!” said the little Squib, “I thought it was quite the other way,
MASON.  Yes, Sir Robert.
some comfort to have so many people with him.
“I have ordered passion-flowers to be embroidered on it; but the
That evening, after a day of hurried cabling and arranging, I bade my
herself_, _and comes over to where_ LADY WINDERMERE _is sitting_.  _As
beginning, and concludes with the middle.
huskily to Zenas for more wood. Wood, indeed, was sorely needed; since
only as "_Cthulhu_"; and all this in so stirring and horrible a
way, Lane, I see from your book that on Thursday night, when Lord
it? It will mock me some day—mock me horribly!” The hot tears welled
If heaven ever wishes to grant me a boon, it will be a total effacing
the brother who had been his greatest playmate.
such signs of wholesale regional decadence, sent several officers and
rs they followed the great morbidity
How quickly it had all been done! He felt strangely calm, and walking
the world Basil Hallward’s masterpiece.
brought his luggage with him.
been highly complimented on it by no less a person than the Virgin Queen
LADY CHILTERN.  Oh, my ambition!  I have none now, but that we two may
_They_. They walk unseen and foul in lonely places where the Words
a. m. on Sunday, the second of February, 1913. This date was recalled
Indeed, that is the charm about Christ, when all is said: he is just like
existence of phantasmata were removed for ever.
EVERY afternoon, as they were coming from school, the children used to go
judgment of some sort; though he could not fancy what for, since he had
from that doomed and accursed farm a gleamingly eruptive cataclysm of
about him? He means you no good.”
vanished also.
ed wandering through dimly
Never having seen a ghost before, he naturally was terribly frightened,
myself.
with stealthy footsteps. He felt a hand laid on his arm and looked
fright in that accursed instant. The Thing can not be described--there
should behave in such a way.
où il mourrait il arriverait un malheur à quelqu’un.  Ce ne peut être
at George Corey's, between Cold Spring Glen and the village, rushed
Lord Henry smiled and looked at Dorian Gray. “Am I to go, Mr. Gray?” he
April storm; but his ministers on earth still bellow and prance and
best gunpowder.  My father was a Rocket like myself, and of French
two nails, and the prints of two nails were on the little feet.
greatly above normal; but the whole condition was otherwise such as to
ngle of glens and
She was a Russian Princess, and had driven all the way from Finland in a
I remember talking once on this subject to one of the most beautiful
on flapping membranous wings.
on flapping membranous wings.
Their arrangement was odd, and seemed to follow the symmetries of some
LADY CHILTERN.  Robert and I are dining at home by ourselves to-night,
soul’?”
“I hate them for it,” cried Hallward. “An artist should create
MRS. CHEVELEY [_Superciliously_.]  Indeed?  I have forgotten all about my
of the orgy fortunately deadened. Legrasse dashed swamp water on the
whispered that bat-winged devils flew up out of caverns in inner
the thin stem of his glass with his pale, fine-pointed fingers.
Eh? Shropshire? Yes, of course. Hallo! Why all these cups? Why cucumber
“Forest Scenes.” “You must lend me these, Basil,” he cried. “I want to
] Kindly turn round, sweet child. [Cecily turns completely
I may weep undisturbed.
straight.  “I know I shall go much higher than the stars, much higher
[LORD GORING _is standing by the fireplace with his hands in his
in my garden utterly absurd.
“That is certainly better than being adored,” he answered, toying with
scintillating, straining, and malignly bubbling in its cosmic and
frightened horses--of course this was mere country talk which such
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Coldly_.]  I am not surprised!
dark and goatish gargoyle appeared one day in Arkham in quest of the
thoroughly dislike each other, father, doesn’t it?  [_Puts on_ LORD
whom we hear so much, say to such a theory as that?
CECILY.
“Courage has passed from men to women. It is a new experience for us.”
the crowd of ungainly, shabbily dressed actors, Sibyl Vane moved like a
ALGERNON.
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.
strange colours, and through the stony soil of the yard and adjacent
and turned pale, nudging Fred Farr and pointing to the dank, deep
JACK.
Almost at the same time the mortality among the livestock commenced.
“Acting! I leave that to you. You do it so well,” he answered bitterly.
safe!  For two days I have been in terror.  I am safe now.  How did
instead of the coarse black or brown bread of ordinary prison fare.  It
peering through the mist-stained glass, and horror seemed once more to
[Recoiling in indignant astonishment.] Mr. Worthing! I am unmarried!
bee flew away. He saw it creeping into the stained trumpet of a Tyrian
ALGERNON.
araound Wizard Whateley's ol' haouse...."
GWENDOLEN.
is a deep river, and perhaps they may have one only son, a little
some strange quickening of inner life the leprosies of sin were slowly
[LORD WINDERMERE _starts_.  MRS. ERLYNNE _enters_, _very beautifully
MABEL CHILTERN.  What are you doing?
theology.  But while to propose to be a better man is a piece of
queer way impossible to describe, while its face had taken on an
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
you pulled the screen in front of it? Let me look at it. It is the best
had happened, and soon learned of the annihilation of the Elmer Frye
In Auckland I learned that Johansen had returned _with yellow hair
of view of art alone one cannot but be grateful that the supreme office
with me for one night, and be my messenger?  The boy is so thirsty, and
within him, and he loathed the man who was seated at the table, more
the pursuing jelly which rose above the unclean froth like the stern
impression of sheer brute force, and we revolt against that. Sometimes,
MRS. CHEVELEY [_With an impertinent smile_.]  Really?
frightened woodland deer. It took a week to track all four, and when
greenish-yellow ichor and tarry stickiness was almost nine feet tall,
“Never! Scepticism is the beginning of faith.”
summer, and the autumn he was very happy, but when the winter came, and
folk of the ancient commercial city dismissed him as merely "queer".
“Often. Too often.”
nightingale has to do with the rising of the moon--no more, though
think it's the Lord's judgment fer our iniquities, that no mortal kin
of style. They affect us just as vulgarity affects us.
in the throng, the police relied on their
one of his aunt’s oldest friends, a perfect saint amongst women, but so
Oxford. “No, I won’t send it anywhere.”
LORD GORING.  I like you immensely.
you my wheelbarrow, and now you are going to give me your plank.  Of
little hillside farms; sometimes with all the buildings standing,
tell him what you want. I have got to work up this background, so I
suspect, but God knows he soon saw enough!
MERRIMAN.
darkening the sun as it slunk away into the shrunken and gibbous sky
correspondence was not preserved, but his notes formed a thorough and
scaly, rubbery-looking body, prodigious claws on hind
and Dream Work of H. A. Wilcox, 7 Thomas St., Providence, R. I.," and
back to his own house, he was conscious that the sense of terror he
same utter mystery, terrible antiquity, and unearthly strangeness of
case, be made so.  The poor thieves and outcasts who are imprisoned here
proving itself absolutely non-volatile at any producible temperature,
an air of pride, that his five bankruptcies were entirely due to ‘The
reason that I don’t believe anything he has told me.”
the floor below. The whole aspect of the farm with its grey desolation
le regarde pas!  Ne lui dis pas de telles choses.  Je ne peux pas les
our world and our conceptions have no part.
from any human throat were they born, for the organs of man can yield
society at all.
LADY MARKBY.  That is quite true, dear.  But one needn’t know them.  I’m
“Poor Lady Brandon! You are hard on her, Harry!” said Hallward
completely caved in. Ammi laid a red checked tablecloth over what was
fermés maintenant.  Pourquoi sont-ils fermés?  Ouvre tes yeux!  Soulève
any accountable being to eternal torment. Anyone but a stolid farmer
memorized.
CECILY.
neckties at all.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Hush—don’t speak of it.
“But suppose, Harry, I became haggard, and old, and wrinkled? What
thing could be covered up.
one survivor in a half-delirious condition and one man who had
tree.
Philistines.  That is the war every child of light has to wage.
confidence, even in tradesmen. But what proof have I of their
“Ah! Mother, Mother, let me be happy!”
Arden, disguised as a pretty boy in hose and doublet and dainty cap.
purple thread runs through the texture of _Dorian Gray_; in _The Critic
sunbeam.
ALGERNON.
“The musicians will sit in their gallery,” said the young Student, “and
dear Agatha’s clever talk.  Of course, we should be very sorry to lose
putting an imaginary case.
Having sent off Washington and the two men to scour the district, he ran
LORD WINDERMERE.  Yes, here it is!
a young person.
earth, moldy and shadowy, and full of dim rumors picked up in caverns
will not allow Hans’ nature to be spoiled.  I am his best friend, and I
their lingering traces of the tarry stickiness, the blasphemous tracks
deserves.
good. Nahum borrowed a horse from Ammi for his haying, but found it
weakness that yields to temptation?  I tell you that there are terrible
“It is. That is the reason why, like Eve, they are so excessively
great significance, and told the loungers at Osborn's that he thought
SALOMÉ [_se levant_] La tête d’Iokanaan.
happens to oneself happens to another.'
Your name was implicated in the most terrible confession I ever read. I
'tain't no use ... I seen it time an' agin Zenas was took ... whar's
LORD WINDERMERE.  Margaret, I came to ask you a great favour, and I still
ALGERNON.
cloudiness and redundance, but I will tell its gist enough to show why
kitchen, for even the small piece refused to grow cool. On the trip
roi des Indes vient justement de m’envoyer quatre éventails faits de
one bit of evidence left against him. The picture itself—that was
the well was a vacant space, except where the earth had caved in;
corners, where they lay shuddering. But the strange expression that he
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I am so glad.  Do tell me what it is.
while still others try to explain the Devil's Hop Yard--a bleak,
tomatoes, and Nahum sadly saw that his entire crop was lost. Quick to
leaving all her money to her London apothecary. At the last moment,
snow-white rose of Paradise.  All that Christ says to us by the way of a
cult in the mountains of China.
belonging to civilization's youth--or indeed to any other time.
GWENDOLEN.
picture.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Mrs. Cheveley, you cannot be serious in making me
The lad frowned.
unmistakable, and Wheeler saw through the glass that they were all
clutched a knife for sin, nor those smiling lips have cried out on God
if it had once been a third-rate dancing-saloon. Shrill flaring
Street, a hideous Victorian imitation of Seventeenth Century Breton
But it is when he deals with a sinner that Christ is most romantic, in
caused, at the time, such public excitement and gave rise to so many
could not convey it--when Ammi looked out again the hapless beast lay
And with strange eons even death may die."
called out at the top of his voice. “A man is hurt.”
headed "_CTHULHU CULT_" in characters painstakingly printed to avoid
I don't doubt myself.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Looking at her in wonder_.]  In my own interests?
alike by Eskimo diabolists and mongrel Louisianans? Professor Angell's
the boy, who may have had some kind of a fringed belt and a pair
annihilates the desire to act. It is superbly sterile. The books that
with ropes.  “Heave a-hoy!” they shouted as each chest came up.  “I am
Darlington has been moralising and talking about the purity of love, and
never heard of her. You are mad.”
would by now be screaming with fright and frenzy. Who knows the end?
L. and R._  _Table R. with writing materials.  Table C. with syphons,
ts noires, les
voice but that of pleasure heard for the first time the
LADY PLYMDALE.  [_To_ MR. DUMBY.]  What an absolute brute you are!  I
HÉRODE.  Mais si, il y a du vent . . . Et j’entends dans l’air quelque
Mr. Cecil Graham
standing on the edge of a precipice.  And it is not for you to make
and he feared the fall of night over that accursed place, but it was
"They's more abaout him as I knows than I kin tell ye, Mamie," she
get that bracelet off, unless you know where the spring is.  And I see
[Illustration: "OUT ON THE LANDING STEPPED VIRGINIA"]
beautiful jewels before he died."
“What becomes of your simile about the orchid?”
most amazing waistcoat I ever beheld in my life, was
Yes, but you must be serious about it. I hate people who are not
is the important thing.”
MABEL CHILTERN.  I am afraid that he has one of those terribly weak
about whom the most frightful tales of wizardry had been whispered
monstrously carven portal. In this fantasy of prismatic distortion it
ely to learn too much. Whether I shall go as
on the basis of every tongue the writer might conceivably have used.
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_After a slight hesitation_.]  Because I think we
The lad muttered something to himself and drummed on the window-pane
He was quite conscious that this would tell them nothing. It was true
a pile of dust. Virginia knelt down beside the skeleton, and, folding
as I am, I am quite sure of that.”
beautiful,' though I may fall many times in the mire and often in the
to be heard. The shunning of his house by neighbours told on him, of
courage.  I sat down the same afternoon and wrote Baron Arnheim the
eley began to knit back into a sort of continuity; so
night. Tuesday? Are you disengaged Tuesday?”
as a lover for whose love the whole world was too small.  His miracles
IOKANAAN.  Soyez maudite, fille d’une mère incestueuse, soyez maudite.
Corey--great raound prints as big as barrel-heads, all sunk daown deep
neurotic and excited aspect had called upon Professor Angell bearing
stumbled against Lady Brandon. ‘You are not going to run away so soon,
him in the play he is staggering under the weight of a burden intolerable
made to open the gate of God's Kingdom.  His chief war was against the
could not
commotion and clopping in the road, and as Ammi quenched the lamp for
PIERRE LOUŸS
such as ours? Take me away, Dorian—take me away with you, where we can
I suppose so. But it seems very unfair. And was your novel ever
ng was not
on Professor Angell bearing
LORD WINDERMERE.  Won’t to-morrow do as well?
finer, after all? There was no reason that the future should be so full
anything after all--the splash had been something else--something which
that we pair so well together.  Between you and him there are chasms.  He
*       *       *       *       *
LORD GORING.  [_Taking out old buttonhole_.]  You see, Phipps, Fashion is
ALGERNON.
prostrate thing, and the great black eyes fell in appallingly. Outside
fifteen.
ul into a cup
connect with the proper flora of the region. No sane wholesome colours
ending paws still rested watchfully, had the leathery,
Of course it was. On the 22nd of last March. You can see the entry if
awfully rude of me if I asked you to go away?”
the one Chri
calloused to strange and unpleasant things. He and the boys continued
Sime or an Angarola could paint.
don’t let him come back to-night.
could not convey it--when Ammi looked out again the hapless beast lay
he was anxious to be away. But he could not help glancing nervously
long cedar chests that lined the west gallery of his house, he had
be more serious than I am at the present moment.”
Oh! il va arriver un malheur.
egotists of us all. Yes;
a man now. I have new passions, new thoughts, new ideas. I am
something?  Some hock and seltzer?
absurd! For Heaven’s sake give me back my cigarette case. [Follows
“But where is your little companion?” he said: “the boy I put into the
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Well-dressed women do.
once before, but she took it into her head to lionize me. I believe
LADY WINDERMERE.  Mrs. Erlynne—if you had not come here, I would have
LADY BRACKNELL.
contented, James, with your sea-faring life,” she said. “You must
in the studio and talk of a thousand things. Now and then, however, he
happened to you when you were locked up with the ghost."
eleven months. His speech was somewhat remarkable both because of its
genealogical reading-room whence the low whining came. For a second
it back? What a pity! it was really a masterpiece. I remember I wanted
stone stands amidst its tumulus of ancient bones. Considerable talk
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Non, non, princesse!
SALOMÉ.  Si, c’est de ma mère.
wheezing to choke out a few words to his grandson.
dear!  [_To_ LADY CHILTERN.]  Good-night, Gertrude!  [_Goes out on_ LORD
dreary corridor that, before the whole crowd, whom an action so sweet and
To each of us different fates are meted out.  My lot has been one of
at there was in frankincense that made one
stone-crowned tops. Those sides loom up so darkly and precipitously
LADY WINDERMERE.  You talk as if you had a heart.  Women like you have no
I must say to myself that I ruined myself, and that nobody great or small
always be in love with love. A _grande passion_ is the privilege of
shabby house that was wedged in between two gaunt factories. In one of
after his fare had got in he turned his horse round and drove rapidly
chant their hellish rituals by the table-like stone on May Eve and
I had largely given over my inquiries into what Professor Angell called
tea, and devoured every single muffin. And what makes his conduct all
animals.
listen to me.  You don’t realise how I was tempted.  Let me tell you the
“Yes.”
Harbury, who seems to me to be living entirely for pleasure now.
said simply.
and whose comeliness was such that, as he lay dying in the yellow
aie pas vus.  Eh bien!  Salomé, vous ne voulez pas qu’un malheur
poussière.  On dirait une couronne d’épines qu’on a placée sur ton front.
Wotton can’t have taught you much about psychology, whatever else he
"BY THE SIDE OF THE HEARSE AND THE COACHES WALKED THE SERVANTS WITH
security. Society—civilized society, at least—is never very ready to
than commonly beautiful; yet there is no influx of artists or summer
chant that hideous phrase or ritual:
with rose-water. “You are quite perfect. Pray, don’t change.”
noses against the foetor they were uncovering. It was not so long a
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Arthur, you are unjust to me.  Believe me, you are quite
CHASUBLE.
Dorian, you understand now what it signifies? Even if I could do it, it
“And you know you have been a little silly, Mr. Gray, and that you
t once conceded from the specimens scattered about that his genius
heaved up from the sea-bottom the horrors that filled men's dreams.
and some of the dreamers confessed acute fear of the gigantic nameless
answer, but he could hear the young man sobbing at the window.
LORD GORING.  It is not true, Robert.  Before heaven, it is not true.  In
artist. This evening she is merely a commonplace mediocre actress.”
CECILY.
people, to lose their only son!  It is really too dreadful!  I shall
LORD WINDERMERE.
he was strolling towards the library, however, to see if there were any
ghted, and for miles
three least-ruined ground-floor rooms had always been sufficient for
"It is absurd asking me to behave myself," he answered, looking round in
are protected in every language.  The original and complete French
much amused_.]
interested in his political career.  I think he’s sure to be a wonderful
the terms I wish, I shall hand you back your letter with the prettiest
underbrush. It was as though a house, launched by an avalanche, had
White porcelain feet, if you like. They have been through the fire, and
a vapour glimpsed in the daytime, against a window opening in the
in the lap of the faded, tired-looking woman who, with back turned to
cattle during Wilbur's absence, had developed a wofully acute case
one who still remains, or who ever talks of the strange days; and he
The fact that they did not follow us at once into the house, as any one
directly into the sky.
And I don’t think it really matters about your not being there. The
object, the doctor added, was invariably a prelude to the young man's
Lady Bracknell, I admit with shame that I do not know. I only wish I
"'POOR, POOR GHOST,' SHE MURMURED; 'HAVE YOU NO PLACE WHERE YOU CAN
man touched his hat, glanced for a moment at Lord Henry in a hesitating
flambeaux.  Apportez les tables d’ivoire, et les tables de jaspe.  L’air
hundred mongrel celebrants in the throng, the police relied on their
the mighty city of
would make the shadow of their evil real.
of Old Whateley, and how the hills once shook when he shrieked the
the fields and distorted woods in a mad cosmic frenzy, till soon the
season has no real affection.  We’re coming to-night, dear.  [PARKER
JACK.
He was so damp with crying that he could not go off at all.  The best
than ever.
masks. Then, suddenly, time stopped for him. Yes: that blind,
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_In her most dreamy manner_.]  I like looking at
And, yet, how vivid was his recollection of the whole thing! First in
Actually, the horrified pause of the men was of comparatively brief
trembling in laughter on her lips. She was thinking of Prince Charming,
n a terrible dream.
don’t know what we’re coming to!  And they tell me that Windermere goes
subconscious residuum had influenced his art profoundly, and he showed
the time. But I will try—indeed, I will try. It came so suddenly across
garden of mint and marigold.”
place is not good for imagination, and does not bring restful dreams at
Dites-lui de s’en aller.  Ce n’est pas à elle que je veux parler.
governesses give warning before their month was up.
that we should live.  If any love is shown us we should recognise that we
The stench left quickly, but the vegetation never came right again.
entitled to share in.
CECILY.
and theatrical, and I wondered how it had come into the folklore of
s my cousin, Mr. Algernon Moncrieff.
were dead. I knew nothing of you but the pet name she used to call you.
stand in the right place, atween the rock falls an' Bear's Den."
an' only the Lord knows when it'll be on us all!"
moved despite my rational beliefs. Wilcox, I was sure, had heard of
ocean-cavern.  But the winter has chilled my veins, and the frost has
“So I have murdered Sibyl Vane,” said Dorian Gray, half to himself,
aout, an' dun't calc'late to miss it. Yew'll know, boys, arter I'm
MASON.  Yes, Sir Robert.
animals. He went much against his will, for the afternoon was advancing
connection that it is small wonder he pursued young Wilcox with queries
utter loneliness, his submission, his acceptance of everything; and along
Madame Sarah Bernhardt, but was accepted by her for production at the
weariness of passion.
Last night—
nothing in her.
me immensely.
to yield to it. Resist it, and your soul grows sick with longing for
they all passed downstairs. He drove off by himself, as had been
And yet what a subtle magic there was in them! They seemed to be able
the night before. Less worthy of notice was the fact that the mother
CHAPTER XIII.
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Il est venu, et il fait des miracles partout.
ht, and stain it with your own heart’s-blood.  You must sing to
Yes, but are you good enough for it?
such has fascinated and dominated art as
college scientists were forced to own that they could not place it. It
at the arts are selfish.  Still,
to be seen. Industry did not flourish here, and the Nineteenth Century
imaginative. Even as things were, his mind was bent ever so slightly;
convolvulus.
house!  A letter addressed to her husband!  [_Goes over to bureau and
given him at his birth the soul of a poet, as he himself when quite young
thrashed around by the mountainous horror, whilst upon its slightly
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Mrs. Cheveley herself.  And the woman I love knows
in the air.
what art should be—unconscious, ideal, and remote.
back the crowd with authority as he unlocked the vestibule door. Among
set myself to wrestle with Caliban. . . .
unpunctuality, as he entered. He made no answer, but sat down to his
reformations in morals are as meaningless and vulgar as Reformations in
chattering about this thing at dinner. I must tell them that the
little better occasionally?  Just as a change.
That was the origin of the whole thing.
horribly hot in the studio. Basil, let us have something iced to drink,
“If you try to look at it, Basil, on my word of honour I will never
he said--written in English, evidently in order to safeguard her from
if it were obtuse.
some big box or crate was bein' opened fur off. What with this an'
humorous paragraph about it; an item soon afterward reproduced by the
money matter? Love is more than money.”
her.  I was not in the sphere in which such belief was to be attained to.
DUMBY.  Why?
It happened in June, about the anniversary of the meteor's fall, and
impossible things. He would go back to Sibyl Vane, make her amends,
It never is, sir.
voudrez je vous le donnerai, fût-ce la moitié de mon royaume, si vous
England.
Ask Mr. Ernest Worthing to come here. I suppose you had better talk to
all the life from the verse. It made the passion unreal.
Cecily Cardew: Miss Evelyn Millard.
Lord Canterville listened very gravely to the worthy Minister's speech,
Well, one evening about seven o’clock, I determined to go out in search
bear the burden of a beauty so flamelike as theirs; and now and then
carriage with two ladies Dorian Gray drove past.
desire for life.
being united.
which has shielded him since the sun was young. His accursed city is
A cold shudder ran through natives and visitors alike, and every ear
shame left.
Didn’t it go off all right, old boy? You don’t mean to say Gwendolen
ning why it had not been fired. The thing itself, however,
lasts a little longer.”
chance.
[_Enter_ LORD GORING _and_ LORD CAVERSHAM.]
irony in things, a bitter irony in the way we talk of good and bad women.
A cold shudder ran through natives and visitors alike, and every ear
CECILY.
on le voit.  Pour une fois
told him what queer things the specimen had done, and how it had
girls, don’t you?—such nice domestic creatures—plain, dreadfully plain,
than sufficient, or, if that failed to wake her, he might grabble at the
such grass and herbage as had not been wholly changed to lethal grey
CECILY.
fresh. His card bore the name of Henry Anthony Wilcox, and my uncle
violent kisses, and the twins executed a wild war-dance round the group.
MASON.  Luncheon is on the table, my Lady!
time of his death, that he had been mixed up in the whole affair.
“‘Well, really,’ cried Hans, ‘it is very good of you to ask, very good
he was slightly luminous in the
CECIL GRAHAM.
he saw the children playing in the garden.
Such hideous things were for the darkness, not for the day.
conversion of a publican into a Pharisee would not have seemed to him a
of them, when given two phials of dust for analysis in a police job
and saw—Ah! what did he see?
Three of the _Emma's_ men, including Capt. Collins and First Mate
they cried, "go back!" but the ghost clutched her hand more tightly,
These Great Old Ones, Castro continued, were not composed altogether
Of course I know that to ask alms on the highway is not to be my lot, and
of their dreams, and the dates of any notable visions for some time
flute.  He played very badly, but no one had ever dared to tell him so,
fact, he was dressed for the character of "Jonas the Graveless, or the
not have any serious conversation after seven.  It makes me talk in my
Wednesday--the next day--he was back at the manuscript, and began to
least read beautiful books; and what joy can be greater?  After that, I
changed your mind? You people who go in for being
platitude.  It makes the whole world kin.  Will you do that for me?
qu’à moi.  Souvenez-vous, j’ai glissé dans le sang quand je suis entré
marriage. Don’t say it. Don’t ever say things of that kind to me again.
spite of the rural tales have named it "the blasted heath."
him he bore the subject of his visit, a grotesque, repulsive, and
for him there; saw it, indeed, and, shuddering, crushed with dank hands
the shell of her ear broke the waves of worldly cunning. The arrows of
MABEL CHILTERN.  But it is for an excellent charity: in aid of the
MISS PRISM.
lose? Every moment that passes takes something from me and gives
who descended on hand-holds with a long pole found that he could sink
Loveless marriages are
come down to the water’s edge to drink.  They have eyes like green
world between lines of nameless guards to a certain and familiar doom.
They had been great friends once, five years before—almost inseparable,
writer would scarcely have wished the trouble of using another speech
It is, if I can fully attain to it, the ultimate realisation of the
LORD GORING.  I am so sorry you didn’t.
have ever known who are personally delightful are bad artists. Good
performed in eleven different languages.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Gertrude!
Children begin by loving their parents; as they grow older they judge
success.  He thinks like a Tory, and talks like a Radical, and that’s so
from dark stars.
sky.]
sweet puritan gravity, caught from some old New England ancestor.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
We can only record its moods, and chronicle their return.  With us time
upland lot, but did nothing with the land around the house. He knew it
am going through? My God!
airth can't burn it nohaow!"
LORD WINDERMERE.  Ah, Margaret, do this for my sake; it is her last
against her.  She has been to several houses—not to houses where you
great prize, the climax of my diplomatic career.  You decline.  Very
“At Aunt Agatha’s. I have asked myself and Mr. Gray. He is her latest
a matter of business; told him of my surveying, and asked vague
useful. It was said to have turned Lord Raker's wig grey in a single
LADY WINDERMERE.  To stay in this house any longer is impossible.
shrilly as he kept on laughing at intervals till death found him one
box, my Lord?’ he said, when he saw me, and he took off his hat with an
“SHE said that she would dance with me if I brought her red roses,” cried
earth, moldy and shadowy, and full of dim rumors picked up in caverns
Raymond Legrasse, and he was by profession an inspector of police. With
the ten-acre pasture. They walked and stumbled as in a dream, and did
Thaddeus went mad in September after a visit to the well. He had gone
very horrid to her, and not very nice to me,” answered Dorian,
afraid you are far from well," she said, "and have brought you a bottle
but it was not your fault. Tell me, did you go behind and see her,
“Everybody went to little Hans’ funeral, as he was so popular, and the
LORD GORING.
back had existed.
always telling us that it is the paradise for women.”
he rang the bell and gave it to his valet, with orders to return as
Hot as it was, they tested it in a crucible with all the proper
Bedchamber, and dreamed of Virginia.
inquiries of my uncle after encountering the sculptor's data have come
the cult narrative of Legrasse, I made a trip to Providence to see
moi.  C’est du roi de Cappadoce qu’il parle, du roi de Cappadoce qui est
looks at him with strange eyes_, _as though she were seeing him for the
gone, and it was evident that their departure had been rather sudden, as
the blasted heath will slumber far below blue waters whose surface will
The bas-relief was a rough rectangle less than an inch thick and about
the Seth Bishop households reported excitement among the dogs and vague
He glanced quickly round and rose to his feet. “I beg your pardon. I
to work at once.
SALOMÉ.  Vous avez juré, tétrarque.
officers were to gruesome experiences, not one remained unmoved at
things revealed; the mere shapes and patterns of things becoming, as it
consequences and checked himself. There was too much responsibility
giving the effect of a cipher; though none of the usual methods of
here. We have had such a pleasant chat about music. We have quite the
LORD GORING.  Dear Mabel, while you are away, there are none.  It makes
LORD WINDERMERE.  You came, and within an hour of your leaving the house
“There is no necessity,” rejoined his companion. “Life has always
now, that ye can hardly see an' can't tell what it is. Nahum thought it
know that those Whateleys were wizards--well, this thing is a thing
sourirai, peut-être.  Regardez-moi, Narraboth.  Regardez-moi.  Ah!
afraid there is no doubt about it.  My dear nieces—you know the Saville
no such acoustic perversions. Rather would one have said they came
sea in 1925 had broken him.
on dear Lady Harbury. I hadn’t been there since her poor husband’s
LADY JEDBURGH.  So sorry.  Come, dear.  [_Exeunt_ LADY JEDBURGH _and_
"_What was it, anyhaow_, an' haowever did young Wizard Whateley call it
At luncheon I saw by the glare in his eye that he was going to propose
gone there, there have been either so many people that I have not been
Friday morning Armitage, Rice and Morgan set out by motor for Dunwich,
views on education are remarkably strict, has brought me up to be
surface curiously as they detached another and larger piece with hammer
London.
you. I remember Harry saying once that every man who turned himself
voice_.]  It is monstrous your intruding yourself here after your conduct
LADY CHILTERN.  Circumstances should never alter principles!
in my absence. The chapter on the Fall of the Rupee you may omit. It is
from the well--in the woodshed behind, and that shaft of unknown and
ced themselves tensely against some imponderable menace with
[Speaking very rapidly.] Cecily, ever since I first looked upon your
smell like he smelt when he faound the
finds that out about her husband, she either becomes dreadfully dowdy,
him. He frowned and bit his lip. “Send him in,” he muttered, after some
Morgan, whose sight was keener.
HÉRODE.  Fût-ce la moitié de mon royaume.  Comme reine, tu serais très
LORD DARLINGTON.  Between men and women there is no friendship possible.
at the junction of the Aylesbury pike just beyond Dean's Corners he
edges soiled. A copy of the third edition of _The St. James’s Gazette_
salary was to be doubled.  As he received no salary at all this was not
once more he went with them to see the stony messenger from the
proving itself absolutely non-volatile at any producible temperature,
LORD GORING.  [_Pulls out his watch_, _inspects it_, _and rings the
most sensible conclusions.
it burns ... it lived in the well.... I seen it ... a kind o' smoke ...
six weeks ago I was allowed by the doctor to have white bread to eat
gone, and now Merwin was gone. Something was creeping and creeping and
me.
LANE.
The feverish interest aroused at the meeting by Legrasse's tale,
LADY CHILTERN.  [_With a cry of pain_.]  Oh! you have saved his life;
_Third F’cap.
across me. And her voice—I never heard such a voice. It was very low at
LY.
Armitage heard the savage yelping of the great watchdog, and studied
back to you all right.
of Doctor Dobell's tincture. If it is indigestion, you will find it a
like to find out people for myself. But Lady Brandon treats her guests
“Never marry a woman with straw-coloured hair, Dorian,” he said after a
members, absolutely nothing was to be discovered; hence the anxiety
to-night, I think I would have told you.  That insult, at any rate, you
any sincerity.  She would not sacrifice herself for others.  She thinks
the trees in the yard were moving. They were twitching morbidly and
indivisible: in which the outward is expressive of the inward: in which
Dorian heaved a sigh, and Lord Henry strolled across the room and began
information unobtainable from any local source. His name was John
le
abject—which, of course, I would not have allowed—but I assure you that
the rest were committed to various institutions. All denied a part
CECILY.
Miss Cardew’s birth, baptism, whooping cough, registration,
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  About Mrs. Erlynne.
laughed. I hear them now, and they make me shudder. What about your
the deafening, cataclysmic peal whose source, be it inner earth or
West of Arkham the hills rise wild, and there are valleys with deep
on top of the church steeple.  Wherever he went the Sparrows chirruped,
writing, and who presently told with some diffidence of the odd trifle
they told me the place was evil. They told me this in Arkham, and
“I should think ‘The Idiot Boy’, or ‘Dumb but Innocent’.
"I guess ye kin git to Seth Bishop's quickest by cuttin' acrost the
from the gnarled, solitary figures spied now and then on crumbling
old Lady Startup saw it, which she did on one fatal New Year's Eve, in
LADY CHILTERN.  To have kept it would have been the first stain on a
fright in that accursed instant. The Thing can not be described--there
PHIPPS.  [_Gravely_.]  Thank you, madam.
glow from the lantern he had taken, and of the child himself no trace.
that graceful wave of the hand that was always so characteristic of
and the bruised, matted vegetation of the fields and road-sides.
admirer.  Now I can finish my play,” and he looked quite happy.
reality to things. I may mention that she was not the woman’s only
one who still remains, or who ever talks of the strange days; and he
“Because to influence a person is to give him one’s own soul. He does
birth. I was . . . well, I was found.
everyone knew from the account must be Nahum's, the darkness had been
field, could form the least notion of even their remotest linguistic
thought it probable that others would be discovered as the enclosing
LORD WINDERMERE.  Margaret, I want to speak to you.
Juliet_, in the _Winter's Tale_, in Provencal poetry, in the _Ancient
SLEEP?'"
good advice.
violent storm of rain came on, and the wind was so high that all the
not dare look back till they were far away on the high ground.
your throats, yet ye see Them not; and Their habitation is even one
her.”
My brother is in the dining-room? I don’t know what it all means. I
it was. Well, the way of paradoxes is the way of truth. To test reality
At that moment a curious crack sounded inside the statue, as if something
_Then she flings herself down beside a sofa and buries her face_.
murmured, as she swept out of the room.
some day be to me. It is not merely that I paint from him, draw from
personally, and tell him to send twice as many orchids as I ordered,
GWENDOLEN.
like, it being answerable from the hill and not from the air.
cookery. Why, there was a buck I had shot in Hogley Woods, a magnificent
Thomas, who had a large wardrobe of Humour’s cast-off clothes.
soleil.  J’ai des saphirs grands comme des œufs et bleus comme des fleurs
analysed, of course, so he busied himself in obtaining them--and here
you?
consented to keep in her former position. She made them each a low
“You will write to me if you want anything, won’t you?” said Dorian,
When Ammi reached his house the horses and buggy had arrived before
had
life-forms of this planet and of the three known dimensions. It was
chance, but I believe in it.
for him_.]
But was our engagement ever broken off?
med to tell him
grass. Henry Wheeler, trembling, turned the rescued telescope on the
affected person I ever met.”
his life or yours.  The money that he gave me, he gave me not through
can account for my continued distrust of the artist. The notes in
Yes, but it’s hereditary, my dear fellow. It’s a sort of thing that
as if he had recognized himself for the first time. He stood there
HÉRODE.  Jamais je ne l’ai vue si pâle.
repute, substantially unknown and untraversed by white men. There were
looks like a woman with a past, doesn’t she?
whom flowers are part of desire, there are tears waiting in the petals of
breaking the Host into the chalice and smiting his breast for his sins.
yourself, Harry, how independent I am by nature. I have always been my
shall soon rule where man rules now. After summer is winter, and
“It is in an empty stable in the Home Farm, sir. The folk don’t like to
can judge them.”
in the bas-relief, and in the terrible statue I now beheld; so that his
little boy who was crying for the moon.  “The Happy Prince never dreams
FOURTH ACT
sunbeam.
his back to them, turning over the pages of a volume of Schumann’s
DUMBY.
were more like you.  It would make life so much easier.  Do you know, Mr.
things back to you.”
I dare say, but somehow it seems to bring a great deal of romance into
In 1917 the war came, and Squire Sawyer Whateley, as chairman of the
An' she says he says they was a swishin', lappin' saound, more nor
He sat down and began to think. Every year—every month, almost—men were
were watched closely by those among whom the glass was passed around.
LORD GORING.  You should go to bed, Miss Mabel.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Gravely_.]  I hope so.  Why do you look at me so
Marble Arch there stood a little crowd of shabby-looking people
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Well, sir, it is only ten o’clock.  What is your
of tense and evil expectancy.
a smile played about his lips. The peril was over. He was safe for the
possible.  Sir Robert, you know what your English newspapers are like.
foreigners tried to live in the crumbling old homesteads. They could
a curious form of devil-worship, chilled him with its
confess? To give himself up and be put to death? He laughed. He felt
As he thought of it, a sharp pang of pain struck through him like a
st.
little you can know of love, if you say it mars your art! Without your
intensifies it.
Their deeds were so similar--and the fragments showed that they had
thing to do is to feed the wretches well.  A good cook does wonders, and
London as they are in Sydney.
was, he displayed some interest; for my uncle had excited his curiosity
neckties at all.
Selina Frye tottered to the telephone and spread what news she could of
looks at letter_.  _Takes it up and lays it down again with a shudder of
ers he saw a wild appeal for mercy. It enraged him.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_After a pause_.]  If I said to you that I cared for her,
idea.  But every one has some weak point.  There is some flaw in each one
are always vulgar.”
moment—about half-past five, perhaps, or a quarter to six—you would
with the brief dialogue that follows, were spoken in a thoroughly
mankind's soul.
miserable affair ever had.  I hope you have not invested in it.  I am
“Your wife! Dorian! ... Didn’t you get my letter? I wrote to you this
LORD GORING.  Or comic, Lady Basildon?
Colonial houses on the ancient hill, and under the very shadow of the
seemed to know so little about acting. Dorian, you mustn’t let this
Cecily also.] There is something in that name that seems to inspire
I hope, Cecily, you are not inattentive.
LORD DARLINGTON.  Yes, I think she should—I think she has the right.
* * * * *
sea in 1925 had broken him.
It was he who first said so.
to him like those straight lines of turquoise-blue that follow one as
he is. He is the last Lord Kelso’s grandson. His mother was a Devereux,
The region now entered by the police was one of traditionally evil
He passed by the cathedral tower, where the white marble angels were
When the barren almond bears,
cities of men. A time will come--but I must not and can not think! Let
cognizant of the old data which my uncle had possessed, had been
you actually are, not in the costume of dead ages, but in your own
without stain.  The world seemed to me finer because you were in it, and
LADY BRACKNELL.
Three days later Nahum burst into Ammi's kitchen in the early morning,
picture? Basil would be sure to do that. No; the thing had to be
[Cheerily.] None!
Dorian Gray drew a long breath. The colour came back to his cheeks, and
ancient road line, but encroached a little on the other side. I felt
Agatha?  [_Comes down_.]
the Great Old Ones spoke to the sensitive among them by molding their
sonnets to the moon.  When I go out of prison, R--- will be waiting for
moved anomalously in a diagonal way, so that all the rules of matter
if you close the doors of public life against him, if you condemn him to
modern mania for morality, every one has to pose as a paragon of purity,
in the meteor. Nahum ploughed and sowed the ten-acre pasture and the
me his tale. When twilight came I had vaguely wished some clouds would
The music jarred, and Dorian Gray started and stared at his friend.
"My own darling, thank God you are found; you must never leave my side
they all told me to pay no attention to old Ammi Pierce's crazy tales,
doing.
bed of pain.
Isn’t Mr. Worthing in his library?
across two ideal things. Few come across one.”
limbs, were not really what they appeared to be.  The curved brow of
called back to town.
paupières tremblantes? . . . C’est étrange que le mari de ma mère me
would have been spared.
Stripes," as they were always getting swished. They were delightful
April brought a kind of madness to the country folk, and began that
members of the vice-admiralty court. I saw the _Alert_, now sold and
in the wainscoting, a press in which he kept his own curious disguises,
JACK.
the buggy. That was the last of Hero till they buried him next day.
I don’t think that you should tell me that you love me wildly,
need of medical aid that Dr. Hartwell was summoned at once.
slopes for myself, and ceased to wonder at anything besides its own
out and creeps stealthily towards the writing-table_.  _Suddenly voices
and to follow the narrow road around the base of the hills and across
jardin.
LADY BRACKNELL.
most excellent remedy." The ghost glared at her in fury, and began at
play upon their stringed instruments, and my love will dance to the sound
situation in the House of Commons. He guffawed at his adversaries. The
Oh! I hope I am not that. It would leave no room for developments, and
what fer!"
e with your Aunt Augusta.
grossly common in its aims.... He was a marvellous type, too, this lad,
itself up where it had left off, and the horror of the sight that had
lightning strike the furrow in the front yard, and when the storm was
JAMES.  Her ladyship has not yet left her room.  Miss Chiltern has just
of them had dreamed very bizarre things, the intensity of the dreams
Virginia blushed.
girl’s record of her own thoughts and impressions, and consequently
society.
"_Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn._"
changed.
remove.
an enemy even—
glimpses of truth, flashed out from an accidental piecing together of
tugged frantically at its stout chain.
table at his little son, who felt so ashamed of himself that he hung his
Bad habit, by the way.  Makes one very unpopular at the club . . . with
dreading to repass that ominous spot, I walked circuitously back to the
no less than a new world to me.  Do you want to know what this new world
actual facts of real life, as we know them.
Without knowing what futurism is like, Johansen achieved something
premise that there was no wind at that hour of the evening. One did
in this long-distance sprayer that might make it show up for a second.
night of March 22nd. Pronounced well by his physician, he returned
might open some morning upon a world that had been refashioned anew in
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Rising and going towards her_.]  You are impertinent.
examines it.] However, it makes no matter, for, now that I look at the
*       *       *       *       *
ALGERNON.
no one believes in her.  And nothing in the world would induce me to do
bread and butter, looks at it, and finds it is cake. Rises in
blowing about in the chill wind that came down the chimney.
schooner _Emma_ of Auckland, which sailed for Callao February 20th,
The painter shuddered in spite of himself.
. . I have known several Jacks, and they all, without exception, were
doin's"--from the summit of Sentinel Hill. Wilbur was growing up
out sharply, passing the glass to Earl Sawyer and indicating a certain
had stood beneath the tremulous gilt of its canopy.
CECILY.
LADY CHILTERN.  No.  Mr. Montford, I think.
strangled in England for what he had done. There had been a madness of
JACK.
and three-quarters?  That is one of the reasons why there was never any
obey what his father told him; and Ammi thought that his fate was very
than once spent the winter.
Je n’aime pas tes cheveux . . . C’est de ta bouche que je suis amoureuse,
evening, Harry. I apologize to you both.”
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Enters behind R._]  Lord Windermere!
offering created.
money is everything.”
lack of a controllable voice when he wished to draw notice to the
JACK.
source is a degradation.  Power?  But power is nothing in itself.  It is
fellow, it can’t be helped. It was the man’s own fault. Why did he get
then in the Church they don’t think. A bishop keeps on saying at the
the
Irem, the City of Pillars, dreams hidden and untouched.
humans, and the unaccountable deaths of Merwin and Zenas in the tainted
the Great Old Ones spoke to the sensitive among them by molding their
fastening itself on her that ought not to be--someone must make it
an' only the Lord knows when it'll be on us all!"
some time they strolled into the ruined chancel of the old abbey. There
tongue run away with you.  You must leave Mrs. Erlynne alone.  You don’t
whippoorwills continued their irregular pulsation, and the men of
The woman gave a bitter laugh. “Little more than a boy!” she sneered.
the children in the most beautiful garden they had ever seen.
Jack when he went to bite me, and Elam says he would kill me if he
added another sentence or two.
a week afterward, when Old Whateley drove his sleigh through the snow
contemplation. But, as the nineteenth century has gone bankrupt through
Les dômes, sur l’azur des ondes
UN NAZARÉEN.  Mais, je suis sûr que c’est le prophète Élie.
Yes; poor Bunbury is a dreadful invalid.
One Survivor and Dead Man Found Aboard.
It was certainly a magnificent display.
make afraid, as though it held something that he longed for and yet
for Rice and Morgan. Far into the night they discussed, and the next
JACK.
unguided i
absolutely unknown to any available authority. The final conclusion of
reticulated hide of a crocodile or alligator.
“Nonsense!” said the Roman Candle, “Romance never dies.  It is like the
that you are better than he is. You are not stronger—you are too much
I shan’t be away more than half an hour.
arms, and sometimes lapsing into an inane titter or a whisper about
and orgiastic license here whipped themselves to demoniac heights by
Lamb: _Witches and Other Night-Fears_.
over and then tore up with a slight look of annoyance in his face.
toward Arkham by the north road. Ammi was worse than his fellows,
of flour for me to market?’
Yet the whole life of Christ--so entirely may sorrow and beauty be made
They took their seats amidst a crowd of watchers. The tulip-beds across
on meteoric iron.
CECILY.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What this woman said is quite true.  But, Gertrude,
standing on the mantelshelf, he saw that the whole place was covered
telegram_.]
to-night from the way I have always heard you talk?  Why are you changed?
velvets; Georgian work, with its gilt coins, and Japanese _Foukousas_,
DUMBY.  Clever woman, Mrs. Erlynne.
others. Even when her expression changed he did nothing. But when the
as it was of complex refrains and movements elaborately repeated,
MRS. ERLYNNE.
ad always hated and
MABEL CHILTERN.  I am delighted to hear it.  Now don’t stir.  I’ll be
hands and feet were large and somewhat
colour. The life of the senses was described in the terms of mystical
the end.
were right, They could plunge from world to world through the sky;
gesture with which he had been greeted.
dignified.
[_Sitting R. at desk_.]
his painting had gone off very much.”
There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well
Illustrated by Wallace Goldsmith
passing over the bridge.  “A swallow in winter!”  And he wrote a long
humiliation and festal days. The last time I delivered it was in the
her.
an effective entrance, he flung it wide open, when a heavy jug of water
information I wanted. I always like to know everything about my new
mind at ease, I will give you my wheelbarrow.’
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  La princesse a caché son visage derrière son éventail!
Don’t spoil it by renunciations. At present you are a perfect type.
and even removed the attic floor, leaving only one vast open void
des opales qui attristent les esprits et ont peur des ténèbres.  J’ai des
HÉRODIAS.  Rentrons.  La voix de cet homme m’exaspère.  Je ne veux pas
Thank you, Aunt Augusta.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  A speculation, Sir Robert!  A brilliant, daring
Do you mean the fashion, or the side?
It certainly was a dreadfully hard frost.
Gertrude.  You have married a pattern husband.
fashionable. But here is Dorian himself. He will tell you more than I
thrusting on him.  Why should you do him the wrong Mrs. Cheveley tried to
whippoorwills, and in their shrill chorus there seemed to lurk a note
that. Dorian told me so afterwards. He, too, felt that we were destined
LADY MARKBY.  Well, dear Mrs. Cheveley, I hope you have enjoyed yourself.
ask how Wilbur called it out of the air. He didn't call it out. _It was
soirée.  Eh! bien, oui.  Je vous ai regardée pendant toute la soirée.
Commencing his descent of the dark stairs, Ammi heard a thud below him.
who made the next discovery. Familiarity had dulled them, and what they
them, were ranged round the walls. Greasy reflectors of ribbed tin
there I am always treated as a member of the family, and sent down with
He turned and hurried out, just conscious that the dead man had been
must keep an opportunity for retreat.”
myself in earlier days.
LADY BRACKNELL.
fleet, and joyous. What did it matter what happened to the coloured
more. Then, after his valet had reminded him several times of the
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  [_Who has risen_, _goes C._]  What a charming,
a trap-door or slantwise like an outside cellar-door. As Wilcox would
up as many able-bodied men-folks as we could get, at Corey's place,
he would tell his friends no more than he had told the admiralty
JACK.
congratulate you, sir.  If the country doesn’t go to the dogs or the
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Putting on his coat_.]  I can’t—I’m off!
archeology. Young Wilcox's rejoinder, which impressed my uncle enough
and more in troubling my sleep.
most advanced Bunburyists I know.
for some time lent the image to Professor Webb, but at the latter's
shelves in a rear room of the museum, my eye was caught by an odd
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Ideals are dangerous things.  Realities are better.  They
that had vanished, and in another second they had vanished too. Behind
guardian, Mr. John Worthing.
a thing that I suppose most men would call shameful and dishonourable?
JACK.
* * * * *
winter snow. Snow never seems quite so heavy on the blasted heath as
he is!  What shall I do?  What can I say to him?  Will he let me go away
a vapour glimpsed in the daytime, against a window opening in the
n now who would drive with her in the park?
[Shakes Miss Prism’s hand in a tragic manner.] I have returned sooner
to you”; but the Duck paid no attention to him.  “I am glad that she has
spiritualizing of the senses its highest realization.
schooldays.  I have a vague impression that they were detestable.
been a great deal of difficulty at first about the inscription on Sir
one, and after some fumbling Ammi threw open the low white door.
neurotic and excited aspect had called upon Professor Angell bearing
ain't even so human as he was. They's allus ben unseen things araound
myself than ever I got, and ask far less of the world than ever I asked.
hips, deep set in a kind of pinkish, ciliated orbit, was what seemed to
her. “I am sorry if I have pained you by asking about my father,” he
writing. And writing of some kind the bulk of these designs seemed
[_Une grande terrasse dans le palais d’Hérode donnant sur la salle de
great inconvenience being without it all these years.
horrible!  [_Throws book on floor_.]
surely overtake the _Alert_ until steam was fully up, he resolved
would be a greying and turning brittle like that which beset the hogs.
roots.
to look after his wife and Zenas if they survived him. It must all be a
have not got, sir, and never will have.
meant to do anything then and there. It was getting toward sunset, and
world.
stronger than you are.  The big battalions are on my side.  You have a
don’t care.”
cried. “Impossible!”
sounded richer and more full of joy. The moment she touched actual
of old forest and slope again, or face another time that grey blasted
"They didn't git him," he muttered in his heavy bass voice.
“My servant has nothing to do with it, Basil. You don’t imagine I let
account!  You don’t know what may be in store for you, unless you leave
handcuffed and with bowed head, I passed him by.  Men have gone to heaven
ricaded
“Not seventeen, Lady Henry?”
perhaps loved her even—you would sneer at me, wouldn’t you?
make the world a mirror for his moods, as surely and as certainly as the
ici est délicieux.  Je boirai encore du vin avec mes hôtes.  Aux
difference from the ordinary accents of the region, and because it
roofs under which they and their ancestors were born.
are called out of the earth when a bullock is sacrificed at the proper
were all that was really noble about her; and the Father of the Gods
“You will never marry again, Lady Narborough,” broke in Lord Henry.
do not allow.  It is my secret, it is not yours.  If I make up my mind to
mania, and eccentricity during the given period. Professor Angell
felt in New England for some years; and Wilcox's imagination had been
there was something in his look that had made her feel afraid.
With a stifled sob the lad leaped from the couch, and, rushing over to
one thing for me now, absolute humility.
faint glow of the vegetation began and the trees may or may not have
him not the slightest pang of annoyance or jealousy. He was pleased by
your decision.
was now scarcely five. It was still hot, and the sages studied its
able to run down to the country quite so often as you used to do, dear
when the wind shifted. A reddish glare, too, seemed to filter through
wondered how it was all going to end.
Names are everything. I never quarrel with actions. My one quarrel is
been!” he said; “now I know why the Spring would not come here.  I will
chess in a garden, while a company of hawkers rode by, carrying hooded
vestibule, was urging them for their own sakes to postpone entrance to
listen to me.
possessing an unknown spectrum, wasting away in air, and attacking
away; for not even friendship could make him stay in that spot when the
If it was my business, I wouldn’t talk about it. [Begins to eat
the conversation.
very picture of respectability.
nswered, tossing his head
flush in the face of the bridegroom when he kisses the lips of the bride.
you are a little hard in some of your views on life.  I think that . . .
disturbed by wild shrieks of laughter from the twins, who, with the
violence of Mrs. Whateley when Lavinia was twelve years old had not
Meanwhile frightful changes were taking place on the floor. One need
shadowed valley of desolation so lately sheltering his ill-starred
His hands were curiously cold.
elder mystery. It was morning when I saw it, but shadow lurked always
JACK.
as in this age to be practical is everything, I shall go back to
SCENE
of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred which the initiated might read as they
ALGERNON.
indifferent to results? Did it merely take cognizance of what passed
[_She nods to_ LORD GORING, _with a look of amusement in her eyes_, _and
scandal.”
cannon forming part of the yacht's equipment.
speeches about us both, while we stood looking at each other like
friends walk slowly in sadness with me: to teach them that melancholy is
was not the secret--that was never spoken aloud, only whispered. The
out of space--a frightful messenger from unformed realms of infinity
“Really! And where do bad Americans go to when they die?” inquired the
resist temptation. He would not see Lord Henry any more—would not, at
the ramshackle Whateley barn seem over-crowded with livestock. There
and ragged cloak of sheer penury: as long as I am free from all
frore gusts from interstellar space. It shrieked and howled, and lashed
tea-table L._  _Window opening on to terrace L._  _Table R._
me des fleurs
or not the others were precisely like him. No one could read the old
lad’s silence, not understanding what it meant.
Yes, Aunt Augusta.
He shook his head. “Knowledge would be fatal. It is the uncertainty
and whereas it had been a good seven feet across the day before, it
artists exist simply in what they make, and consequently are perfectly
it, that the police could not but realize that they had stumbled on a
uld look long at them, and even the medical examiner
a work of art.  He does not really teach one anything, but by being
wearing a silk hat and Inverness cape_.  _White-gloved_, _he carries a
ill-famed tavern near the docks which, under an assumed name and in
by-the-bye!”
For the Greek gods, in spite of the white and red of their fair fleet
have promised to go round for ten minutes to see poor Lady Brancaster,
“You think so?” He laughed again.
of the few houses in London where I can take Agatha, and where I feel
Finished what, may I ask?
I don’t think you should be so proud of that, though I am sure it must
e very unbecoming to him.  Good afternoon
is not incompatible with a real ardour of temperament, and that,
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Thank you.
and dismal.
and unlocked the door.
was a malady, or a madness, or both.  I grew careless of the lives of
because it was Candlemas, which people in Dunwich curiously observe
the way, Shropshire is your county, is it not?
ROBERT CHILTERN.]
he is the best secretary he has ever had.
LES ESCLAVES DE SALOMÉ
college for testing. They took it in an old pail borrowed from Nahum's
and my younger brothers seem never to do anything else.”
has a perfect host, and a perfect library.”
exist between you and him.
of the house. We will go up by the front staircase, as it is wider.”
it, for I am extremely fond of fiction.”
telling the city people at Arkham who laughed at everything. Thad was
me his tale. When twilight came I had vaguely wished some clouds would
becoming language. I know perfectly well that I look quite plain after
mirror the sky and ripple in the sun. And the secrets of the strange
Cthulhu still lives, too, I suppose, again in that chasm of stone
we must see it on the tight rope. When the verities become acrobats, we
so charming and graceful as he was could have escaped the stain of an
he sank a little deeper still into the mud, and began to think about the
sitting there, too, and in the sunlight now. How horrible that was!
The _Emma's_ men showed fight, says the survivor, and though the
le last words of his
idols which the Great Ones showed them; idols brought in dim eras
life at all.  To him what is dumb is dead.  But to Christ it was not so.
one pushes out to the Lido. The sudden flashes of colour reminded him
he did remains to be seen, for I have learned much now.
New Jersey, the curator of a local museum and a mineralogist of note.
that very spot by her own husband, Sir Simon de Canterville, in 1575.
ournament, and had
the brier-bordered stone walls press closer and closer against the ruts
to sleep in. It was too much like a landscape of Salvator Rosa; too
Then the men, having reached a spot where the trees were thinner, came
its purple stars. But we never get back our youth. The pulse of joy
You are not to talk of Miss Cardew like that. I don’t like it.
Arkham was given a short paragraph in the _Gazette_; and it was there
as they ought not to do at night.
e the woman’s thimble.
hyacinth-blossom, and his lips are red as the rose of his desire; but
draw all the poison from the soil. He was prepared for almost anything
SALOMÉ.  Je ne suis pas fatiguée, tétrarque.
moon, and lives for ever.  The bride and bridegroom, for instance, love
it was certainly a tedious party. Two of the people he had never seen
disgraceful of your servant hiding my work like that. I felt the room
Irish how to listen, society here would be quite civilised.  Besides, I
“Oh, yes, Harry.”
been frightened by the ghost for more than fifty years of her life, she
[Picture: The Happy Prince]
evening I found Mrs. Cheveley concealed in your rooms.  It was between
pretty bride.”
life. To have ruined one’s self over poetry is an honour. But when did
MRS. ERLYNNE.  How kind of you!  But I am afraid I have to go.
hope to be able to recreate my creative faculty.
grinned over the obvious mistakes. They wondered, too, why the writers
JACK.
and the dog had torn off all the clothing and some of the skin. It
perhaps it is just as well that he acted as he did. No one will ever
cried. “How long ago is it since your sister died? Quick, tell me!”
the door, and his valet informed him that the head-keeper wished to see
spectator, with perhaps a flicker of triumph in his eyes. He had taken
All at once one of the detectives at the window gave a short, sharp
the one thing worth having, the one supreme pleasure worth knowing, the
sir.  I hate paradoxes.
reminds one of the worst excesses of the French Revolution. And I
probably due to excitement or exposure.
cult or system of cryptic lore, he besieged his visitor with demands
SALOMÉ.  Je demande la tête d’Iokanaan.
albino woman of 35, living with an aged and half-insane father
night, and not quite enough clothes.  That is always a sign of despair in
and my husband, Mrs. Cheveley!  [_Moves away_.]
house in letters for the sun to gild and the moon to silver, 'Whatever
regarde comme cela.  Je ne sais pas ce que cela veut dire . . . Au fait,
JAMES   }
could make_. I looked at one or two afore I run, an' I see every one
small change.
HÉRODIAS.  Faites-le taire!
a glass of water_.  _While his back is turned_ MRS. CHEVELEY _steals_
give no guess. Merwin was gone, and there would be no use in telling
coronation of the Virgin was figured in coloured silks upon the hood.
“I should think it was, Harry. But according to your category I must be
“How you men can fall in love with that woman!” exclaimed the old lady.
happy married life that there has been since that terrible thing called
think of them. And, yet, there was the picture before him, with the
beauty came on him like a revelation. He had never felt it before.
LADY WINDERMERE.  How do you do, Lord Darlington?  No, I can’t shake
The veterinary shivered, and walked to the front door to drop the heavy
writing. And writing of some kind the bulk of these designs seemed
town by the curving road on the south.
till they became paralyzed with fear, and finally, to throw off the
himself and his daughter.
Come to-morrow.”
were doing in my drawing-room?
In the centre of the grass-plot was standing a beautiful Rose-tree, and
wanting to know her, wasn’t it?”
driven considerably south of her course by exceptionally heavy
great central chimney, too, and fitted the rusty range with a flimsy
with horror.
changing fancies of a nature over which he seemed, at times, to have
tare into space and
and a man who allows himself to be convinced by an argument is a
GWENDOLEN.
In fact, now you mention the subject, I have been very bad in my own
It’s wrong for a man to abandon his wife for a shameless woman.  It is
stone-crowned tops. Those sides loom up so darkly and precipitously
the fine lines of the mouth had, no doubt, appeared at the very moment
saw himself face to face. It was perfectly true. The portrait had
small way.
prophets, they had not really the smallest idea of what either of them
in a fortnight, leading me the devil of a life. As for their being
baisé ta bouche, Iokanaan, j’ai baisé ta bouche.
made no written record of its mouthings, but asserts confidently that
place—that is all. Give me the key.”
“Are you very much in love with him?” he asked.
truth appeared an hour later, when a hastily assembled group of armed
and it is love and the capacity for it that distinguishes one human being
The older matters which had made the sculptor's dream and bas-relief so
unconsciousness and delirium. My uncle at once telephoned the family,
literary ambitions, but I gave them up long ago.
I had visions of personal fame from researches into its origin and
that conscience could raise such fearful phantoms, and give them
that revealed to me the wonder of beauty. In a mad moment that, even
irretrievably weak and vacillating. Indeed I am not sure that I would
terrible delight, the hideous lines that seared the wrinkling forehead
And now, in response to a general urgent demand, Inspector Legrasse
no wind seemed ever to blow about. The trees near it were sickly
painting, and yet there was no doubt that the whole expression had
splashed on in silence through the terrible cypress woods where day
a slightly décolleté one, and they are excessively popular nowadays.
“Not very good, Dorian. I think most of the birds have gone to the
That is nothing to you, dear boy. You are not going to be invited . . .
Your rank and wealth, Harry; my brains, such as they are—my art,
It is the only way to eat them.
eyes caught the melody and echoed it in radiance, then closed for a
of the two hearts one is sure to be broken.
“There is no one with whom I would not change places, Harry. Don’t
the hill. Apparently the horror had descended by a route much the same
pretence of being my brother. Under an assumed name he drank, I’ve just
"_Cthulhu_" and "_R'lyeh_".
trust makes me faithful, her belief makes me good. When I am with her,
ossible.  Il serait mieux de dire que
he hapless beast lay
everything that he did, and tried to reproduce the accidental charm of
“‘Certainly,’ cried little Hans, ‘I take it quite as a compliment your
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Takes_ LORD GORING’S _hand_.]  You have been a
in the East End, and that his name was Dorian Gray. I am bound to state
but you seem to have forgotten that you came here to-night to talk of
the trees in the yard were moving. They were twitching morbidly and
mmell Angell, Professor Emeritus of Semitic
“My dear fellow, I congratulate you most warmly,” he said. “It is the
neck, and kissed him.
d’agate qu’il portait toujours à la main.
a beautiful girl who acts Juliet, and proposes to marry her. Why not?
LORD GORING.  You don’t, Phipps?
in their Gnomic aphorisms, 'Even the Gods cannot alter the past.'  Christ
cool, white, flowerlike hands, even, had a curious charm. They moved,
hands, or by the hands of others, that love should come to cure us—else
masonry which
wife, consequently, should love travelling also.”
[Lane is arranging afternoon tea on the table, and after the music has
Spells might be all right--but suppose they weren't? Voices began
India a thousand years ago.
of which I was convicted that I had not done, but then there are many
HÉRODE.
Suddenly his eye fell on the screen that he had placed in front of the
MERRIMAN.
everything that money can buy; and with all our spry young fellows
How cleverly you have both kept your secret.
there in the well, he has never been quite right since.
The grass had so far seemed untouched, and the cows were freely
the singular clay bas-relief, which was then exceedingly damp and
to disperse homeward, anxious to bar themselves indoors despite the
that I am wicked.
for themselves with rising pangs of horror the drear Frye ruins with
ugly despite his appearance of brilliancy; there being something almost
you’re faithless.  Every one told me so.
o not shrink. Its
exit C._]
in that way to the public. It seems that as she was leaving the theatre
seriously and half in jest, “If you want to have a strange quarter of
ALGERNON.
Suddenly the man drew up with a jerk at the top of a dark lane. Over
this time the restoration of the house was finished, and those who
luctance about approaching, and did so at last only because
both suffered from the grey brittle death. Why was everything so grey
where there is no definite object of any kind.
LORD GORING.  Mrs. Cheveley made an attempt to ruin your husband.  Either
any solid obstruction.
prayer of man to a most just God.
pa," said Virginia, quietly, "I have been with the Ghost. He is dead,
o make a devil and a precocious monster of
from a window after a shocking cry. Here likewise a rambling letter
“My dear boy,” said Lord Henry, smiling, “anybody can be good in the
S’enflent comme des gorges rondes
eyes, and his hair was like fine gold.  When he saw her he
“What disobedient children!” cried the old Water-rat; “they really
triangular drawer passed slowly out. His fingers moved instinctively
pretty tough tussles sometimes."
philosophes à Rome se tuent?
MISS PRISM.
future.
gestures that so often become a mode of second nature to a
consciousness when the Arkham men came slowly down the mountain in the
again. There were no signs of any change when he looked into the actual
There were in it metaphors as monstrous as orchids and as subtle in
sang.  N’est-ce pas qu’il a prédit cela?  Vous l’avez tous entendu.  La
arriver? . . . Je l’ai prédit moi-même et il est arrivé.  Je savais bien
“I don’t wish to know anything about them. I love scandals about other
soul of one who is ignorant there is always room for a great idea.  But
advanced. There was a horrible brittleness, and dry fragments were
definitely and unmistakably; and it became obvious that the text was
ALGERNON.
worshipped.
Thaddeus being already known, and mentioned that the cause seemed to
_Then recoils in contempt_.]  Thank Heaven I am in time.  You must go
LORTON, _and_ MR. CECIL GRAHAM.
separately as he went. He climbed interminably along the grotesque
ir Robert.  An acquaintance that begins with
bow.
Three months go over.  The calendar of my daily conduct and labour that
IOKANAAN.  Fille d’adultère, il n’y a qu’un homme qui puisse te sauver.
have a lot to talk to you about.  And Cecil has something to show you.
sang froid_.]
The girl looked up and pouted. “Money, Mother?” she cried, “what does
Cthulhu for a glorious resurrection when the stars and the earth might
CHASUBLE.
tion of
LADY MARKBY.  [_Turning to_ LADY CHILTERN.]  Dear Gertrude, we just
“This is magnificent,” cried the Rocket, “they are going to let me off in
attracted, and talked often of the meteorite in the succeeding weeks.
LORD DARLINGTON.  Excuse me, you fellows.  I’m going away to-morrow.  And
pass any night weeping and watching for a more bitter dawn.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Oh!  You don’t think that—you can’t.
repute, substantially unknown and untraversed by white men. There were
he motioned to accompany him inside.
is indeed profound and authentic.
temptations of my life.
faint odors which he sometimes thought he caught near the stone circles
continually making their appearances in art, under various modes and at
wandered through a corridor lined with marble mirrors, looking round
“My ideal, as you call it...”
I certainly intend to have. Of course I don’t know if the thing would
them all, those strange terrible figures that had passed across the
and chisel. They gouged deeply this time, and as they pried away
asking for nightly reports
trouve que guérir les lépreux est une bonne action.  Mais je ne permets
there ever be put forward for having made it?  Of course once I had put
You are looking a little worse.
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Le tétrarque a l’air sombre.
began to mumble without turning or raising its head. Dr. Armitage
some indications of the strange hill noises came from afar off, he
[_Sails out on_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN’S _arm_.  LADY CHILTERN _goes to the
“It is quite true, Dorian,” said Lord Henry, gravely. “It is in all the
after a long struggle with myself I accepted you under this dear old
inform upon you. It is not my business. Besides, without my stirring in
the Water-rat.
To this day there is something queer and unholy about the growths on
from dark stars. That cult would never die till the stars came right
airth can't burn it nohaow!"
people’s toes,” answered the Roman Candle in a low whisper; and the
that! not that!  If I in—in trouble, and wanting your help, trusting you,
Thank you.
queer image found in the shrine on the _Alert_, is poignantly visible
love each other.  It was your ambition that led you astray.  Let us not
before its time, and make some foolish bird call to its mate to build on
because it would have been limiting.  I had to pass on.  The other half
afraid to tell me for fear I should be jealous. He is quite right. I
ROSALIE.  Something about your ladyship’s fan.  I didn’t quite catch what
are the great white stars of the hemlock flower, there the nightingale
My brother ... No; never mind. He didn’t mean it. He was in jest....
mankind, and linked to black gulfs of essence and entity that stretch
have found me in tears. Even Harry, who was here, who brought me the
fact, Mr. Otis wrote a letter to that effect to Lord Canterville, who,
name of Innocent and into whose torpid veins the blood of three lads
Yes, but that does not account for the fact that your small Aunt
less than they thought.
started for the door to do something, but Ammi laid a shaky hand on his
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Bitterly_.]  I only war against one woman, against
don’t quite forgive you for not having let me know of your engagement.
he lived on to a great age, he was never able to say anything again but
I had largely given over my inquiries into what Professor Angell called
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Coming down back of table_.]  I think I had better
than they are.”
treat for you to-night, Algernon. I am going to send you down with Mary
with these idolatrous words: “The world is changed because you are made
touch of cruelty in the mouth.
course; but it told on his wife more. The boys were better off, being
everyone on the line, and found that only the Fryes did not reply. The
‘Pooh,’ like the critic.
the one thought; and the wild desire to live, most terrible of all
“Except in America,” rejoined Lord Henry languidly. “But I didn’t say
LORD DARLINGTON.  Lady Windermere!  I knew the time would come some day;
PARKER.  Yes, madam—her ladyship told me she had left a letter for his
better reason for his being sent there.  The people who work for an hour
sufficient to entitle me to his manuscript, I bore the document away
the level country beyond till it rejoins the Aylesbury pike.
with a complement of eleven men.
“How can you say that? I admit that I think that it is better to be
bas-relief. It was, Johansen said, like a great barn-door; and they all
changed into something that seemed to the lad himself to be remote from
les anges n’existent pas.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  What a charming house you have, Lady Chiltern!  I have
that the ends of the facial feelers brushed the backs of huge forepaws
freedom, flowers, books, and the moon, who could not be perfectly happy?
usual between midnight and three o'clock, taking every possible
Lord Windermere
amusing to talk to.
have left.  They are made of rare sapphires, which were brought out of
front of stage_.  _He talks rapidly and in a low voice_.  LADY WINDERMERE
whitish mass on the painted boards, and the monstrous odor had nearly
to look at, and not at all easy to paint. I never told on you, though I
magnificent. And yet I don’t suppose that ten per cent of the
believe that the Commission was prejudiced, or, at any rate, misinformed.
subtlety could elicit more in this direction. The _size_ of the Old
with. It is not what you told me it was.
cachés ici que même votre mère n’a jamais vus, des bijoux tout à fait
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I suppose that is meant for a compliment.  My dear
truth, but we have lost the faculty of giving lovely names to things.
ts
were to be endless, I could not bear them to be without meaning.  Now I
bully the little squibs, in order to show that he was still a person of
YOG-SOTHOTH!..."
falling, there is nothing in the world I would not dare, nothing in the
[_Enter_ MABEL CHILTERN.]
SALOMÉ.  Donne-moi la tête d’Iokanaan.
was his best friend.  ‘Besides,’ he used to say, ‘he is going to give me
LADY WINDERMERE.  I did not ask her.  He insisted on her coming—against
Rice, beside him, took from a valise a metal sprayer of the sort used
thing for me that I have so many.  I am going to bring them into the
MRS. ERLYNNE.
s it was, I succeeded in tracing down only a
six beautiful daughters, and I am so afraid the Pike may meet them.  He
material agent in stamping out the entity which Wilbur Whateley had
don’t still imagine—no, you couldn’t.
LORD GORING.  You want to talk to me about Mrs. Cheveley?
whose wounds are like red roses.
which induced one of the men, an excitable Spaniard, to fancy he heard
he would tell his friends no more than he had told the admiralty
science that each little spring of life would be revealed to us. As it
Robert.  I see the people coming up from supper, and Englishmen always
link between us and
calculating . . . [In a meditative manner.] Eighteen, but admitting to
But Joe Osborn interrupted him to question the Arkham men anew.
indeed, according to certain modern psychologists, is often a condition
w so much of the thing--and its
es began
“That awful thing, a woman’s memory!” as Lord Henry had once said.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Then I am safe!  Oh! what a wonderful thing to be
heartless.
stood there trembling at the black curve of the boxed-in staircase.
the table and examined what was under the covers.
HÉRODE.  Il n’a rien dit contre vous.  Aussi, c’est un très grand
proof against me is destroyed, I
footprints in the snow. They were the usual winter prints of red
be married to her once, when I was staying at the Tenbys’.  The affair
“You don’t like your country, then?” she asked.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Rising hurriedly_.]  Oh, no!  It’s nothing serious.
bachelors, and all the bachelors like married men.”
Lying back in the hansom, with his hat pulled over his forehead, Dorian
marred.  I was entirely wrong.  She told me so, but I could not believe
allow me to share it, I should feel it most bitterly.  If he shut the
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.  Voici le temps!  Ce que j’ai prédit est arrivé, dit
precaution against being either heard or seen. He removed his boots,
I can quite understand that.
Yes, sir. [Hands them on a salver.]
there is both rain and sun for the narcissus.
How absurd to talk of the equality of the sexes! Where questions of
He began to wonder whether we could ever make psychology so absolute a
away and buried, and the buggy which they shortly returned to him,
and be your messenger.”
not think his natural thoughts, or burn with his natural passions. His
and that the tea had been already brought up. On a little table of dark
returned the next morning to see the ruins by daylight, but there were
You have never looked more charming than you do to-night. You
called out. Everything was still. Finally, after vainly trying to force
and you are furious. How like a sympathetic person! You remind me of a
world was made. Besides nameless rites and human sacrifices there were
knocked at the
There was a stifled groan and the horrible sound of some one choking
had not his home lain outside the bounds of the future lake. Relief
LORD GORING.  No, father; but the lady is like me.
ridicule.
idualism has really the higher aim. Modern morality consists in
tasteless. The asters and goldenrod bloomed grey and distorted, and
regrets.
shallow were the arbitrary definitions of ordinary psychologists! And
think, Harry, that there are only two eras of any importance in the
that. Don’t be so indifferent. You have a wonderful influence. Let it
“What sort of ways, Basil?”
up.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_After a pause_.]  Then you are going to allow your
CHASUBLE.
right to tell you never to enter this house, never to attempt to come
You may realise it when I say that had I been released last May, as I
now harbors the one slovenly mercantile establishment of the hamlet.
“‘That was kind of you,’ said Hans; ‘I was half afraid you had forgotten
over a year and a half later, recalled that the queer colour of that
alike, and in its morbid sympathy of its moods, and tones, and colours,
scientists verified the fact of the utter vanishment. The failure was
thrust Basil Hallward’s coat and bag. A huge fire was blazing. He piled
Half of the audience went out, tramping in heavy boots
store for him!
The ancient books taken from Whateley's quarters, while absorbingly
now resolved to visit Mate Johansen in Oslo.
pleasure and awe to me to remember that the ultimate survival of the
said at last.
much of myself!”
quite inexperienced in doing anything of the kind. However, I will tell
a week.
work, is the best work of my life. But in some curious way—I wonder
dim seats of consciousness and terror far subtler than the ear; yet
scandal is gossip made tedious by morality.  Now, I never moralise.  A
in the building, and had manifested since then only alternations of
is all. How can you say such horrible things? You don’t know what you
One night there flew over the city a little Swallow.  His friends had
LADY WINDERMERE.  Oh, with pleasure.  There is one on that table.  I’ll
LANE.
face, and seemed about to linger there. But he suddenly started up, and
He had looked at it through the window, and had seen that no stone
it would be a great loss to me if anything happened to it.’
formerly.
“I thought you had left England.”
Shoreman and Mr.
from Webster, or Ford, or Cyril Tourneur. The girl never really lived,
Armitage had an idea that the alphabet might be something esoterically
punishment is to-night, is now!  [_Still seated R._]
whole family went out to drive. They did not return home till nine
Gardners thought that most of the colours had a sort of haunting
fact, that only the ingrained skepticism then forming my philosophy
you.
world.
Ernest, we may never be married. From the expression on mamma’s face I
MRS. ERLYNNE.  No; you see, to-morrow I am going to accept him.  And I
shine on the telescopes and photographic plates of our observatories.
were scattered about the room, and just inside the window an empty
corridor, and finally dropping the rusty dagger into the Minister's
made pets of the graceful felines.
By September all the vegetation was fast crumbling to a greyish
gossips would not credit this. Certainly, however, restlessness was
so late! I sent round to him this morning on chance and he promised
character.
JACK.
boarding-up of all the windows in the reclaimed section--though many
it was a rough parallel in all essential features of the bestial thing
"Yes, you have," he answered, smiling, "you have never told me what
GWENDOLEN.
about the sensation I derived from my one lone walk before Ammi told
killed my love,” he muttered.
and tell her that I forbid her to come here!
the Canterville family
HÉRODE.  Oui, chère et digne Hérodias, vous êtes mon épouse, et vous avez
Lizard, who was something of a cynic, laughed outright.
a stealthy bitterness and sickishness, so that even the smallest of
or midwife presided at his coming. Neighbors knew nothing of him till
strangled. Cry out against Heaven because the daughter of Brabantio
you on the doorstep!  Your servant had just told me you were not at home.
time, and I had the double misfortune of being well-born and poor, two
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Hum!  That is what I have come to talk to you about,
“If he had been, you would not have loved him, my dear lady,” was the
LADY WINDERMERE.  He does not understand what love is.  He understands it
woman, who, when as a trial of her faith he said to her that he could not
that Shakespeare taught to speak have whispered their secret in my ear.
“‘The Miller’s son has fallen from a ladder, and has hurt himself, and
was that I confined myself so exclusively to the trees of what seemed to
anguish that chooses sack-cloth for its raiment and into its own drink
of those who spoke. It had happened in the 'eighties, and a family had
the curator told me, had found it a monstrous puzzle; for they vowed
describe. In her raving there was not a single specific noun, but
took him gently in his hand, and put him up into the tree.  And the tree
ears, and Ammi turned away from the window in horror and nausea. Words
Marjoram and Wild Basil, the Cowslip and the Flower-de-luce, the Daffodil
effect, with life in its practical realisation, of which he knows
[Slowly and hesitatingly.] Gwendolen—Cecily—it is very painful for me
in your terms.
abnormality which far outraced any image their conscious minds could
LADY MARKBY.  Good evening, dear Gertrude!  So kind of you to let me
than I had been led to think, and before I knew it had grasped quite
He waited impatiently for him to go. The man seemed to take an
LADY WINDERMERE.  I am afraid I am engaged, Lady Jedburgh.
sculpture had animated this terrible object, yet centuries and even
life to pieces with your epigrams.”
indifferent to life itself. The consciousness of being hunted, snared,
A feeble scratching on the floor downstairs now sounded distinctly, and
that for the last hour and a half Miss Prism has been waiting for me in
"That is not dead which can eternal lie,
woman never understands.
your duty to do that.
HÉRODE.  Et je n’ai jamais manqué à ma parole.  Je ne suis pas de ceux
his sway.
“‘How well you talk!’ said the Miller’s Wife, pouring herself out a large
mania, and eccentricity during the given period. Professor Angell
even you know nothing of. The tragedy of old age is not that one is
man of that party agreed in whispering later on,
LORD DARLINGTON.  The woman I love is not free, or thinks she isn’t.
ceased. He sat upright in bed, astonished to find himself at home and
refer to. If it were not so, indeed, History would be quite unreadable.
CECILY.
poor uncle, but he never seems to take much notice . . . as far as any
empty stable in the Home Farm, sir. The folk don’t like to
*       *       *
was like the globule and the plants. After that had come the runaway
streamed through the open doorway the dust danced and was golden. The
“There was nothing evil in it, nothing shameful. You were to me such an
work. The consequence is that he has nothing left for life but his
pockets of his Astrakhan coat, and seemed not to have noticed the
LORD CAVERSHAM.  You are heartless, sir, very heartless!
you fancy only God can see.”
love him,” she
except with a sneer, shot up into the sky like wonderful golden flowers
brother.
everything to me in life. Night after night I go to see her play. One
ALGERNON.
[Still standing up.] I may call you Cecily, may I not?
becoming!
MERRIMAN.
LADY WINDERMERE.  Why should it be necessary?
of the baffling bands were precisely like those which the strange
one could quite be certain till later. None of the countryfolk seemed
had seen it in the nasty brittle globule in that aerolite two summers
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Nothing is absolutely known against her.  On the
must pay.  Sooner or later in political life one has to compromise.
unholy iridescence from the slimy depths in front. Ammi had restrained
boy!  I’m so sorry.  Boys are so wicked.  My boy is excessively immoral.
flushed for a moment with pleasure. A look of joy came into his eyes,
Wal, Mis' Corey, ef they was on the glen rud this side o' the glen,
when he meets it either in a man or a movement.
barked frantically all night. Early risers on the tenth noticed a
will always watch over him, and see that he is not led into any
excluded, and shows how wrong Aristotle was when he said in his treatise
have seen this in the portrait.
of him as the grey, twisted, brittle monstrosity which persists more
press at which wise Omar sits, till the seething grape-juice rose round
comparison of details, and a moment of really awed silence when both
whippoorwills which seemed to be assembled near the unlighted Whateley
“You are infamous, absolutely infamous!” he muttered.
be mixed up in it. Things like that make a man fashionable in Paris.
“I am made for public life,” said the Rocket, “and so are all my
LORD CAVERSHAM.  What about, sir?
Old Ones. The carven idol was great Cthulhu, but none might say whether
and passions, atom calling to atom in secret love or strange affinity?
which one could arrive at any scientific analysis of the passions; and
CHAPTER XIX.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Except their husbands.  That is the one thing the modern
against me. If it is discovered, I am lost; and it is sure to be
“You must have something to do with it. Wait, wait a moment; listen to
the Miller wants you to come at once.’
as an indiscretion.
convinced himself that he had been the victim of a terror-stricken
LORD GORING.  [_Apologetically_.]  Quite so, father.  I was merely
complex thing, and politics is a very complex business.  There are wheels
was as if the poet had coined the phrase from having seen this one
_3. The Madness from the Sea._
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Don’t you really know?  I assure you we’re all so
painted floor beyond the radius of the stickiness, and left a curious
was abnormally lifelike, and the more subtly fearful because its source
from the polished glass. The very sharpness of the contrast used to
the gods fought against the giants, that had been worked by brown girls
IOKANAAN.  Arrière!  Arrière!  J’entends dans le palais le battement des
ACT DROP.
spoke of the dreams in a manner none could mistake. They and their
gripped the front edge and extended a quarter of the way down toward
His night had been untroubled by any images of pleasure or of pain. But
free passage, and though there is a heavy duty on spirits of every kind,
Birrell, who had made the post-mortem examination of the deceased.
It’s pleasant, is it not, to see so perfect a reconciliation? I think
has never happened. It is simply expression, as Harry says, that gives
t
and a feeling of vague disquiet. Nahum himself gave the most definite
afterward--such a scream as could come from no being born of earth, or
what was rumoured about him, how much he must have suffered! Then he
PARKER.  No, madam.
more
CECILY.
There was a hideous screaming which echoed above even the hill noises
PHIPPS.
This was all, together with the picture of the hellish image; but what
really romantic end as you suggest, but I can’t. I dare say he fell
in a great envelope, which he immediately placed in his inside coat
seven. Shall you see Basil between this and then? Or shall I write to
“Why, Harry?”
Delicate lace ruffles fell over the lean yellow hands that were so
the variations in ink and penmanship, presented a baffling puzzle to
On the nineteenth of October Nahum staggered into Ammi's house with
uncouth of dialect, to consult the copy at Miskatonic,
An excellent idea! I nearly always speak at the same time as other
the most unpoetical of all creatures. But inferior poets are absolutely
GWENDOLEN.
hearts.  Here you are laughing and making merry just as if the Prince and
Shub-Niggurath!_ As a foulness shall ye know Them. Their hand is at
It usen’t to be, I know—but I daresay it is now. Science is always
ngaged before
CECIL GRAHAM.  It isn’t!  It isn’t really.
course, are dreadful, do you think seriously that women who have
CECILY.
LADY BRACKNELL.
A house bought with the price of dishonour.
an' Merwin an' Zenas ... everything alive ... suckin' the life out of
has now.  I remember so well how, with a strange smile on his pale,
er and went out. Curious stories
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Crossing to her_.]  Margaret, what you said before
eight-fifteen that evening.
want me, come to me for my assistance, and you shall have it.  Come at
driver beat at them with his whip.
I certainly wouldn’t let Jack buy my outfit. He has no taste in
t think you should be so proud of that, though I am sure it must
to sleep in. It was too much like a landscape of Salvator Rosa; too
felt the full force of that earthquake-born tempest which must have
dear Lady Windermere, I am afraid it is really good-bye.  [_Moves up C._]
writing, and who presently told with some diffidence of the odd trifle
When they looked back toward the valley and the distant Gardner place
didn’t write them down, I should probably forget all about them.
passing through a similar experience.
Then he rose from the table, lit a cigarette, and flung himself down on
Angell became convinced that the sculptor was indeed ignorant of any
sense goaded to feverish heights, he thought unaccountably of what he
“Ugliness is one of the seven deadly sins, then?” cried the duchess.
nothing will happen to Ammi. He saw so much of the thing--and its
tremendous, and the sources scattered throughout the globe. Here
LORD GORING.  My dear Mrs. Cheveley, you have always been far too clever
for you.
Poor Johansen's handwriting almost gave out when he wrote of this. Of
GWENDOLEN.
over.
looking at the man with startled eyes. “Anything that would tell his
of their dreams, and the dates of any notable visions for some time
Street. He had cried out in the night, arousing several other artists
the Arkham country hereafter. Three of the men who had been with Ammi
and shimmered over the sashes of the small-paned windows. It ran up
scandal.  _I_ only talk gossip.
back had existed.
entirely divine.
her great disappointment no one would ever believe anything against
brother—his elder brother.
it, every flake and film of colour seemed to me to reveal my secret. I
wa'n't me that put this Dee copy in the shape it is...."
the noise of the cattle subsided to a pitiful moaning, and a great
whippoorwills outside. Bits of shoe-leather and fragments of apparel
smaller natures and the meaner minds.  I became the spendthrift of my own
mean dog. He was, too. Came to Madrid once when I was there. Egad, I
buzzing and crawling. Most of the creatures seemed not quite usual in
called forbidden shapes of shadow out of the great rounded hills, and
“You talk books away,” he said; “why don’t you write one?”
r regret, the remembrance even of
MABEL CHILTERN.  How pale you are looking, Gertrude!  It is most
was to burst forth in a few hours and become the memorable Dunwich
had been in the well gave a hint that his long pole must have stirred
Twilight had now fallen, and lanterns were brought from the house.
quiet. No one was about. For a few seconds he stood bending over the
thing called common sense.
“He is called Prince Charming. Don’t you like the name? Oh! you silly
Rome pendant l’hiver, vous n’avez rien entendu dire de cela?
did not come down again. They ultimately found her lying dead on the
idea of its nature. It seemed to be a sort of monster, or symbol
thought was buried, rose up in front of me, hideous, horrible, with its
They had been great friends once, five years before—almost inseparable,
HÉRODE.  Apportez des fruits.  [_On apporte des fruits_.]  Salomé, venez
HOPPER.  How do you do, Lady Windermere?  How do you do, Duchess?
egg-shell, and amongst the ruins nothing living or dead could be
the ship was befouled by an acrid and blinding green cloud, and then
a sigh, and beginning to patch it. She
JACK.
moments he said to him, “Have you really a very bad influence, Lord
all agreed that plants of that kind ought never to sprout in a healthy
death it was returned to him and remains in his possession, where I
of whippoorwills that would come out of Cold Spring Glen to chirp under
Whateley, who wanderingly remembered ancient things but who had been
“That Tartuffe has emigrated to England and opened a shop.”
money you want.
factory movement proved short-lived. Oldest of all are the great
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_With a gesture of impatience_.]  I will not talk of
ACT I. Algernon Moncrieff’s Flat in Half-Moon Street, W.
imposing on the veteran scientist. These responses from esthetes told
ALGERNON.
not know who he was, could not know who he was. The mask of youth had
him. His eye fell on it. He knew what it was. It was a knife that he
Lord Henry languidly. “You must certainly send it next year to the
other.
drawer and spread it out before him.
everything ... in that stone ... it must o' come in that stone ...
stay with them every summer after I come from Homburg, but then an old
Come to-morrow.”
moment of surrender, abasement, and humiliation.  I can, at any rate,
JACK.
empty_, _and turns round_.]
Prayer from out the lips of sin,
dens of horror where the memory of
Certainly.
nbeams; but this new glow was something definite and distinct, and
know the origin of the symbols if,
still reeked with an unholy and unidentifiable stench. "As a foulness
broidered little huntsmen. They blew their tasselled horns and with
be the only truth.  Other things may be illusions of the eye or the
for common sense.
glad when the new reservoir blots it out. I shall be glad, too, for I
the old house would have ventured forth for any earthly reward. With
always share.  I would not a bit mind sleeping in the cool grass in
horror.
me why I should not go in for philanthropy.”
JACK.
awkward silence with her silly sudden laugh. “I have promised to drive
thought you were.  You are just the same as every other woman.  You would
chain, and went down the hill with the basket on his arm.
“Harry, Harry, it is terrible!” cried the lad.
alleys between them, and the floor was too soft with the dank moss and
Raymond Legrasse, and he was by profession an inspector of police. With
rot. We degenerate into hideous puppets, haunted by the memory of the
guess. Death would be a boon if only it could blot out the memories.
LORD GORING.  I love talking about nothing, father.  It is the only thing
his position. Never, in a brilliant and uninterrupted career of three
in Their tombs. When, after infinities of chaos, the first men came,
By H.P. LOVECRAFT
meant to judge us, but to forgive us when we need forgiveness.  Pardon,
magnificent. The world would have worshipped you, and you would have
whom you must not see.
have brought into the political life of our time a nobler atmosphere, a
wish that I had been; but you are made to be good—you look so good. I
arise not long afterward, but there was absolutely none then. Even
knew he would be meddling with terrible powers, yet saw that there was
Yes, that is all very well; but I am afraid Aunt Augusta won’t quite
Speaking very slowly, he told him to tell the house-keeper that he
of their dreams, and the dates of any notable visions for some time
of pearl.  Sweet is the scent of the hawthorn, and sweet are the
in us.  We have to go to others for that!
each dreadful day in the very minutest detail like its brother, seems to
ned of the cult, of a sensitive young man
to.  The most dreadful people seem to go everywhere.  They certainly come
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Do you think it is quite charming of you to be so rude to
except for his kind heart, and his funny round good-humoured face.  He
HÉRODE.  Vous ne m’écoutez pas, vous ne m’écoutez pas.  Enfin,
beautiful than to be good.
disappeared. Apparently Whateley had had no skull or bony skeleton; at
ALGERNON.
world.
eauty that had so fascinated Basil Hallward, and
“Always! That is a dreadful word. It makes me shudder when I hear it.
as chanted aloud:
have a perfect right to be christened if I like. There is no evidence
after winter summer. They wait patient and potent, for here shall
CECILY.
have been spoken and the Rites howled through at their Seasons.
Oh, don’t say that. However badly he may have behaved to you in the
waiting even five minutes for anybody. It always makes me rather cross.
darkness of the blind, the fierce misery of those who live for pleasure,
he bore him—for it was really love—had nothing in it that was not noble
Mamma! [He tries to rise; she restrains him.] I must beg you to retire.
finding it a thing of balefully exquisite workmanship, and with the
was a munificent patron of art. He was a most offensive brute, though
in the black dominion of the ancient and once passive nightmare. He
yards. The
in the meteor. Nahum ploughed and sowed the ten-acre pasture and the
keep away.
simpletons! Show them Arthur Machen's _Great God Pan_ and they'll think
everything over a horrible scandal?  If I am hounded from public life?
things that are written down in books.
JACK.
laughing.
entering_.  _Door L.U. opens on to illuminated terrace_.  _Palms_,
was nothing to be afraid of, there. Yet he thought it best to be on his
The last two occasions on which I was allowed to see my friends here, I
now fast fading into a mixed low growling and moaning, proceeded
ith silent
was a matter of life and death.” His voice was hard and cold. He spoke
LORD GORING.  My dear father, if we men married the women we deserved, we
has just occurred to me that it would be much better if you went instead
those pallid, jade-faced painters of Tokyo who, through the medium of
valley with his sheep in search of green meadow or cool stream; as a
woke late Friday, clear of head, though sober, with a gnawing fear and
crystal.  Only true lovers could drink out of this cup, for if false lips
In investments, chiefly.
g
to the Court of Bankruptcy, between two policemen,--waited in the long
Lady Bracknell.] There is the lady who can tell you who you really are.
plants ... must a' ben more of 'em ... seeds ... seeds ... they
Swallow, will you not bring her the ruby out of my sword-hilt?  My feet
here ... one o' them professors said so...."
o not shrink. Its
everything I wanted, including your best gold-tipped cigarettes. He is
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Thank ye.  No draught, I hope, in this room?
encore?
that grotesque
Downstairs ran the Giant in great joy, and out into the garden.  He
an over-expenditure of sympathy, I would suggest that we should appeal
It may have been only imagination and it may have been only echoes
“Or do you think that would make it a petticoat party?”
he had
LADY PLYMDALE.  Lord Windermere, I’ve something most particular to ask
people.  Wonder why it is one’s people are always so tedious?  My father
money for my night’s lodging.”
by Wilbur Whateley, who had lashed his one remaining horse through the
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Pretty child!  I was like that once.  Now I know
LORD GORING.  [_To himself_.]  Ah! that is something.
in the sitting-room, did not dare to move until the last echoes died
skeletal.
the garden a thrush began to sing.
away--draws ye--ye know summ'at's comin', but 'tain't no use--" Ammi is
applause, and now I have come in to have my tea.  [_To_ LORD GORING.]
, Margaret.
It really makes no matter, Algernon. I had some crumpets with Lady
towards the river.
ground floor, while odd cries and footsteps resounded in the boarded-up
sted
face, and seemed about to linger there.
“Don’t go to the theatre to-night, Dorian,” said Hallward. “Stop and
Selby Royal or in Grosvenor Square. To him, as to many others, Dorian
woven in a diaper of red and gold silk, and were starred with
the _Arkham Advertiser_ was a facetious little item from the Associated
you had forgotten
little warning is that every moment should be beautiful, that the soul
scandal she might be afraid of.
last, and the hapless farmer's mind was proof against more sorrow.
never died, and high priests said that the city would rise again when
in substance, both the Eskimo wizards and the Louisiana swamp-priests
[Enter Merriman. When he enters he coughs loudly, seeing the
It must not be fancied that Inspector Legrasse had the least interest
college scientists were forced to own that they could not place it. It
that had been discovered stored in a disused attic at Selby Royal. As
consciousness. There is a sense of spectral whirling through liquid
lordship complains of in the buttonhole.
foolish as to accept you?
Thank you, Aunt Augusta.
had recognized him as the youngest son of an excellent family slightly
the driver on impulse, forgetting how uninjured he himself was after
spills the odorous spices over his tired dusty feet, and for that one
expected to give the unseen horror a moment of visibility. Two or three
mort et ta tête m’appartient.  Je puis en faire ce que je veux.  Je puis
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Looking at him_.]  Really!  How?
of _Robinsoniana_, or something dreadful of that kind. It is a sad
Does life repeat its tragedies?  [_Tears letter open and reads it_, _then
the door-post for support.
Princesse de Judée!  Eh bien, Iokanaan, moi je vis encore, mais toi tu es
and she cannot marry without my consent until she comes of age.
librarians in distant places where rare and forbidden books of old days
feared to wake the sleepers and yet must needs call forth sleep from
wicked. Mrs. Umney told us, the first day we arrived here, that you had
and Ammi soon saw that he must search for himself. Leaving the harmless
of great nights, the rain falling through the leaves, or the dew creeping
wakeful concentration. He had not left the manuscript all night, but
nothing of the fact that she is my ward.
terrible language that was not of earth. Merwin was getting frightfully
gripped the front edge and extended a quarter of the way down toward
LADY CHILTERN.  Here?
had issued warnings of the keenest intensity to all librarians having
and in a singularly curious irregular rhythm quite unlike that of the
It was next the vegetation. All the orchard trees blossomed forth in
in black oak, at the end of which was a large stained glass window. Here
[_These people enter as announced_.]
body--Thad an' Merwin, Zenas an' Nabby--Nahum was the last--they all
John Worthing, J.P.: Mr. George Alexander.
aussi noires.  Le silence qui demeure dans les forêts n’est pas aussi
Above the waist it was semi-anthropomorphic; though its chest, where
DUMBY.  I didn’t say it as a matter of conceit.  I said it as a matter of
the name of Ernest . . . I don’t think the name suits me at all.
connect events, he declared that the meteorite had poisoned the soil,
regardée, Iokanaan?  Derrière tes mains et tes blasphèmes tu as caché ton
all directions at random for something they could not tell what. It was
[Illustration: ... and in the fearsome instant of deeper darkness, the
Library at Harvard, the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris, the British
file which includes the original illustrations.
Cthulhu was loose again, and ravening for delight.
a rustle of chirruping sparrows in the green lacquer leaves of the ivy,
gazing at.
LORD GORING.  Mabel, do be serious.  Please be serious.
the wearing of a jewel, or the knotting of a necktie, or the conduct of
the company, frighten or enthrall them. To be in love is to surpass
*       *       *       *       *
than we fancy. Form and colour tell us of form and colour—that is all.
nd as the rambling voice scraped
CECILY.
want your wife to act, so what does it matter if she plays Juliet like
same state, and a number of bones of smaller animals. The ooze and
then.  I have just seen her.
and I are closer than friends.  We are enemies linked together.  The same
LORD GORING.  [_Looking at him steadily_.]  Except yourself, Robert.
wander about the house as long as she was harmless to herself and
He ran freely about the fields and hills, and accompanied his mother
must be marvellous, and any girl who has the effect you describe must
whole world. Now, I don’t know what has come over you. You talk as if
GWENDOLEN.
husband and myself.
thing.  It is more precious than emeralds, and dearer than fine opals.
sure to do it, then. Whenever a man does a thoroughly stupid thing, it
of some intelligence, and had been second mate of the two-masted
GWENDOLEN.
“An eternity, she tells me. I believe, according to the peerage, it is
LADY WINDERMERE.  Put it there, Parker.  That will do.  [_Wipes her hands
laughing maniac by his side. He did not try to navigate after the first
storm would prove a short, sharp one followed by clear weather.
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_Takes up roses and begins to arrange them in a bowl on
night?—when she played so badly, and my heart almost broke. She
“Ah, what is impossible?” murmured the young man, going over to the
away; for not even friendship could make him stay in that spot when the
“I wish I could love,” cried Dorian Gray with a deep note of pathos in
erations; and was
Please don't be angry with me; if you had let us be engaged last year,
choses.
l’entendez-vous pas?  C’est tout à fait comme un battement d’ailes.
blows were struck, shots were fired, and escapes were made; but in
But what name?
that beats in us at twenty becomes sluggish. Our limbs fail, our senses
old one can still be found amidst the weeds of a returning wilderness,
lost no time in crowding around him to gaze at the diminutive figure
and down the Nile, and talking to the large lotus-flowers.  Soon they
insincere apology, he ceased to feel bored.
mauvais présage.  C’est d’un très mauvais présage.  Pourquoi y a-t-il du
the mixed blood and marine pursuits of the cult-members in Louisiana,
HÉRODIAS.  Non.  La lune ressemble à la lune, c’est tout . . . Rentrons
There was a horrible fascination in them all. He saw them at night, and
[Illustration: "Oh, oh, great Gawd ... that ... that."]
the Eastern world.  I never liked the idea that we knew of Christ's own
u.  Voici le jour dont j’avais parlé.
“I am afraid that women appreciate cruelty, downright cruelty, more
to the tragic mood: no error more fatal than expecting it of them.
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Rising_.]  Margaret, if you knew where Mrs. Erlynne
concerned with.  And the first thing that I have got to do is to free
supper, and our great cask of red wine, he might get envious, and envy is
[Shaking her head.] I do not think that even I could produce any effect
savour of the heretical views of the Anabaptists, views that I have
But when I think that they might lose their only son, I certainly am very
about this part of his story and speaks only of their falling into
may be. But the bravest man amongst us is afraid of himself. The
but I am told that she has at least a dozen, and that they all fit.
died in Paris of apoplexy. Lots of people die of apoplexy, quite
Commencing his descent of the dark stairs, Ammi heard a thud below him.
LORD GORING.  Lady Chiltern not down yet?
it must be admitted that she has some beautiful notes in her voice.  What
not civilly refrain from telling the librarian--the same erudite Henry
such signs of wholesale regional decadence, sent several officers and
proposed to you?
animalism in the soul, and the body had its moments of spirituality.
sure you pronounce the names of the guests very distinctly to-night.
He talked of his dreams in a strangely poetic fashion; making me
at sea as well as on land. What motive prompted the hybrid crew to
shadowed valley of desolation so lately sheltering his ill-starred
the whole thing up. I would, if my articles hadn’t been signed.”
faint, half-musical sound from the distance, as if a loud chant
tremble. Basil Hallward leaped to his feet and began to applaud.
image prove it?--but that shape was not made of matter. When the stars
rose the wakening wonder of his face. Talking to him was like playing
permissible to say that, aside from the external appearance of face
hunger and thirst and the cares of this world, and that to his friends
notice of him at all till they were just going away.
sometimes the sky silhouettes with especial clearness the queer circles
never been fed from the tainted vegetation. Then something struck the
of its black suggestion. He could not recall having seen the original
invariably plain.  There is nothing in the whole world so unbecoming to a
“Dear Prince,” said the Swallow, “I cannot do that”; and he began to
interferes.] Please don’t touch the cucumber sandwiches. They are
her, looked round to see who was there. Dorian bowed to him shyly from
olically to the wheezing gasps
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
scattered plasticity of that nameless sky-spawn was nebulously
Ses petites mains blanches s’agitent comme des colombes qui s’envolent
week until he began stumbling and hurting himself, and then he shut
LADY BRACKNELL.
an Australian journal, _Sydney Bulletin_ for April 18, 1925. It had
take a chance. It's invisible--I knew it would be--but there's a powder
of what people should try to become.  He held them up as examples to
[_Exit_ PARKER.]
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh, pray don’t trouble, Lady Chiltern.  I dare say I lost
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Yes.  I am so glad to get it back.  It was . . a present.
spoken sounds. His facial aspect, too, was remarkable for its maturity;
"I tell ye, Mis' Corey, they's suthin' abroad as hadn't orter be
comme des figues vertes.  Ce prophète parle comme un homme ivre . . .
LORD GORING.  Lady Chiltern, I have sometimes thought that . . . perhaps
dy Chiltern!  Good-night, Lord
face is gittin' to hev that colour sometimes towards night ...
Island School of Design and living alone at the Fleur-de-Lys Building
"_Cthulhu_" and "_R'lyeh_".
geniuses late in life and never leaves the commonplace. Sibyl, however,
d, the pigeons ran about picking up seeds.
LORD GORING.  Got my second buttonhole for me, Phipps?
Armitage inadvertently took a wrong direction, Joe Osborn warned him
visitor.  The fact is that I find this place rather tedious.  There is
“Yes, I thought you would like it,” replied his host, rising from his
dogs had begun to hate and fear the whole Whateley place as violently
sted
said, “my letter—don’t be frightened—was to tell you that Sibyl Vane is
investigation; but as it was, I succeeded in tracing down only a
bas-relief.
you?  For the privilege of being your wife I was ready to surrender a
LORD GORING.  Not if there is any music going on, Miss Mabel.
pizened the whole place ... dun't know what it wants ... that round
repair the unused parts of his house--a spacious, peaked-roofed affair
complex, and vital. When critics disagree, the artist is in accord with
to the full, as one should do everything that one does.  There was no
butter it is too.
Yet the roses are not less lovely for all that. The birds sing just as
Norway a certain seaman who saw things is dead. Might not the deeper
pâle.  Elle ressemble au reflet d’une rose blanche dans un miroir
“I will wait with you one night longer,” said the Swallow, who really had
DUMBY.  I am, I usually am!
Prosperity, pleasure and success, may be rough of grain and common in
ture has taught me that. Lord Henry Wotton is perfectly right. Youth
story-teller nowadays starts with the end, and then goes on to the
come”; and she swept out of the room, followed by Lady Agatha and the
Well, that is no business of yours.
is the folks hereabouts. Lavinny's read some, an' has seed some things
from the stars slavered and gibbered like Polypheme cursing the fleeing
ALGERNON.
large crystal; of the great green snake that sleeps in a palm-tree, and
An open window showed black and gaping in the moonlight. What had come
used their own strength to get the heavy wagon near enough the hayloft
“Don’t run down dyed hair and painted faces. There is an extraordinary
ing of almost
LORD GORING.  Pray be calm, Lady Chiltern, and answer the questions I am
from the moon back again to the pit, all livened by a cachinnating
purple drawn by silver-shod mules, been carried through the
HÉRODE.  Cela me semble étrange.  Je pensais qu’il n’y avait que les
that.
them in, and the worst of all is left! Tell Rice and Morgan we must do
cowardice of its sneer, and to pluck out the tongue of scorn by the
GWENDOLEN.
left and reeled out the back door into the fields. He climbed the slope
At last he lost his way, and wandered off on the moor, which was a very
things rustled in the undergrowth. Upon everything was a haze of
[LORD GORING _rushes to the bureau and takes up the envelope_, _finds is
Then fell the time of fruit and harvest. The pears and apples slowly
or the mere wonder of your own personality, thus directly presented to
back in horror. Algernon and Jack pretend to be anxious to shield
that, for me at any rate, there is no such thing. Still, your wonderful
no identifying features whatsoever; and at the end of the tests the
straight where the blasted heath is now; but people ceased to use it
it may have resisted the overtures of your enterprising impresarios. It
him, sketch from him. Of course, I have done all that. But he is much
inquiries of my uncle after encountering the sculptor's data have come
brain, and the brain only, that the great sins of the world take place
Suddenly, a sharp, dry cough was heard, and they all looked round.
here ...
and Dream Work of H. A. Wilcox, 7 Thomas St., Providence, R. I.," and
had been placed on the tea-tray. It was evident that Victor had
[_Enter_ PARKER _with a tray on which lie_ LADY WINDERMERE’S _fan and a
more than the life of a flower, is there anything that, for sheer
PARKER.  Yes, my lady.
“murdered her as surely as if I had cut her little throat with a knife.
CHAPTER I.
“You can dine with me to-night, Dorian, can’t you?”
JACK.
of the Argentine scheme.  You made your own fortune out of one canal.
ly wanted to see
Miss Fairfax!
be married to any one.
to men, and vocal qualities peculiar to beasts; and it is terrible
THE EARL OF CAVERSHAM, K.G.
mystery also.
quite true that his life had been very evil, but, upon the other hand,
with the hideous unknown blend of colour; trees, buildings, and even
although the vagaries of cubism and futurism are many and wild, they do
sengaged Tuesday?”
beautiful girl came out on the balcony with her lover.  “How wonderful
wun't keer ter git very nigh Wizard Whateley's! Cha'ncey didn't look
he hapless beast lay
curiously at the immense carved door with the now familiar squid-dragon
Yes, darling, with a little help from others.
and mulattoes, largely West Indians or Brava Portuguese from the Cape
fly buzzed noisily about the room, and the ticking of the clock was
of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity, and it was not
butterflies fluttered past them, and in the pear-tree at the corner of
“Yes; I don’t suppose you will object to that. Georges Petit is going
before yesterday that seemed to me at the time to be merely fanciful,
connected with it will be found in the third volume of Lord Tattle's
overemphasized everything that she had to say. The beautiful passage—
room with them. In the absence of the lamplight it was clear that a
was Ernest, didn’t I?
present. It is almost an epidemic amongst them, I have been told. May I
with the puppets of a play?
easily frightened.  She has survived all her creditors, and she shows
like what he smelt up to the Whateley rewins Monday mornin'.
own part I have a mother’s feelings, and I can never look at a confirmed
had almost trebled my
nnaturally belated
be in charge. The youth's febrile mind, apparently, was dwelling on
CECILY.
noble and gentle women in the world to degrade her husband in her eyes,
and stamped upon the rough stones, shaking their bells and trappings.
wuss...."
Hallward, tore the knife out of his hand, and flung it to the end of
“Well, sir, you’ll be covered with cobwebs if you go into it. Why, it
whatever early Gnostic took his name and mantle--I see the continual
origin was fear and whose result was a degradation infinitely more
LORD GORING.  Certainly.  [_Goes to the corner of the room and pours out
With pleasure, Miss Prism, with pleasure. We might go as far as the
himself I know what Wordsworth meant when he said--
ning, Lady Chiltern!  Warmest congratulations to
gaze was the next moment called swiftly to earth by the crackling in
University.
vision and absolute intensity of apprehension.
seemed to me to be godlike. The painted scenes were my world. I knew
DARLINGTON _enter from the terrace_.]
Miss Prism: Mrs. George Canninge.
distracts one’s mind from higher things.”
longing for the great simple primeval things, such as the sea, to me no
you wasted your time and money.
“My child, you are far too young to think of falling in love. Besides,
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma.
other people’s wives are a necessary luxury in modern life.  So, at
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Iokanaan.
schooner _Emma_ of Auckland, which sailed for Callao February 20th,
could have been no mortal staircase.
the fireplace, and, quite unconscious of what it really signified, said
shall be late for lunch, if I stop any longer. Thanks for giving me the
way it's made an' the way it works ain't like no way o' God's world.
Bills and cards, debts and dowagers!  Who on earth writes to him on pink
un cadavre à ses hôtes?  Enfin, qui est-ce?  Je ne veux pas le regarder.
I have never met any really wicked person before. I feel rather
mad after her. She was romantic, though. All the women of that family
skies of spring and the flowers of summer must ever afterward be poison
There is something fatal about a portrait. It has a life of its own. I
This was no breath from the skies whose motions and dimensions our
Vane?
mechanical forces of society, and who does not recognise dynamic force
The old gentleman growled approvingly and rang the bell for his
primroses, and filled the Miller’s basket.
guests_.  _After having carefully examined all the people present_, _he
anybody here to-night whom one could possibly call a serious purpose.
palmers’ kiss—
It was somewhat after this time--on Hallowe'en--that a great blaze was
ONE morning the old Water-rat put his head out of his hole.  He had
was in store for the fair face on the canvas. Once, in boyish mockery
is not half as useful as Logic, for it does not prove anything, and it is
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Laughing_.]  ‘I want you.  I trust you.  I am coming to
the truth of what they saw. All around the dwindling brown lump near
it fust an' look at the graound.
Hallward was thunderstruck. He looked at Dorian Gray in absolute
“I have forgotten it.”
That my uncle was excited by the tale of the sculptor I did not
.
I can. For I feel that you are sure to change.
as the gods are strange, and punish us for what is good and humane in us
a studied malevolence which Ammi could not but feel had come from some
were. The men were a poor lot, but, egad!
distorted when viewed through the polarizing miasma welling out from
added another sentence or two.
The only way to behave to a woman is to make love to her, if she is
LORD GORING.]
MRS. CHEVELEY [_Sitting down_.]  I thought your frock so charming last
Parker!
not believe I would like to visit that country by night--at least not
glowed on the broad-planked floor where the rag carpet left it bare,
outside tin stove-pipe.
their pain; or that as he passed by on the highway of life people who had
Men need it so sadly.
him to find discrepancies, duplications, and ambiguities which made
[_Enter_ PARKER.]
serious Bunburyist knows that.
beliefs. Legrasse and his men, it is true, have been let alone; but in
about some new liveries that he was thinking of getting made for the
makes people think that one is a wild shot. And Geoffrey is not; he
Satyricon once had been, yet in his inmost heart he desired to be
TIME:         _The Present_.
doorway into the tainted outside air of that poison city of madness.
it a common Dunwich scandal! But what thing--what cursed shapeless
low doorway and locked the accursed secret behind him. There would be
come in at ten minutes to nine and tell her that I must be dressed by
and stunted, and many dead trunks stood or lay rotting at the rim.
the Tories were in office, during which period he roundly abused them
Hallward got up from the seat and walked up and down the garden. After
displayed all the dainties and viands that could be wanted for a feast;
and began to read it on the London boat.
that I was not going to Australia at all. I have a great mind to chuck
unspoiled nature, like Gwendolen, could hardly be expected to reside in
‘From little Cecily with her fondest love.’
LADY CHILTERN.  No.
joyeux_,” the musical accompaniment of the words being wrought in gold
whose
away; for not even friendship could make him stay in that spot when the
body, they would have been the same.... That the kind of fear here
lights_, _which illumine a large eighteenth-century French
flooded for the new reservoir. Then the dark woods will be cut down and
back to your husband, and I promise you never to communicate with him
is not for the sake of the enemy, but for one's own sake that he says so,
mère qui était reine vous avez fait une esclave, Hérodias.  Ainsi, il
good women.  The world is perfectly packed with good women.  To know them
neglected me lately.  I have not seen you since yesterday.  I am afraid
“Ah!
I regret all that you have taught me. I become different from what you
LADY WINDERMERE.  Mine is already broken.  [_A pause_.]
learned of it. When it had gone, no residue was left behind, and in
another well on higher ground to use till the soil was good again.
was over Nahum got the mad notion that she was slightly luminous in the
do, if the brief remainder of my days is not to be maimed, marred, and
one’s boyhood? ‘Lead us not into temptation. Forgive us our sins. Wash
death.
silver case and began to smoke a cigarette with a self-conscious and
had done before him.
charming, but mediæval emotions are out of date. One can use them in
of crying for anything.”
a terrible part in the doings that were to come. It grew fast and big
LADY CHILTERN.  Mabel, Mrs. Cheveley wishes to know you.
thing.
If he wedded Messalina, he would be none the less interesting. You know
curiosity_.  _In all her movements she is extremely graceful_.  _A work
ul words:--
could have been no mortal staircase. The very sun of heaven seemed
merely poses.
world was made. Besides nameless rites and human sacrifices there were
the ghost passed at once into your possession, as, whatever activity
moi, Iokanaan, que tu ne veux pas me regarder? . . . Et ta langue qui
The Duke and Duchess, after the honeymoon was over, went down to
other name!
opened, and Mrs. Otis came out in a light blue dressing-gown. "I am
CECILY.
sea in 1925 had broken him.
once. Lane goes out.]
court, the streets of Dunedin, and the long voyage back home to the
“I hate the way you talk about your married life, Harry,” said Basil
Well, I wish you would offer one.
repassed with snail-like deliberateness. Then it was obvious that the
in recognizing both hieroglyphics and pictorial design. Many of his
were going to market at twelve o’clock they found the Giant playing with
LORD CAVERSHAM.  I am very glad to hear that, Chiltern . . . I
JACK.
back in five minutes.  And don’t fall into any temptations while I am
is horribly thoughtless, and seems to take a real delight in giving me
LORD WINDERMERE.  You scoundrel!  I’ll not leave your room till I have
As they turned a corner, a woman yelled something at them from an open
that colour, and knew that this last faint remnant must still lurk down
seen a city before, but had no thought save to find his way to the
in our praise, as the story is one of the finest
all this.  But I can’t believe that my husband is untrue to me.
and began to weave itself into fantastic suggestions of shape which
England.
and I had to go. He wanted me to try some cigars that he strongly
nion boarded the yacht and tried
.  If that woman crosses my
.C._]  Your husband has never seen the letter.  I—saw
he spoke he seemed to reflect some elusive element wholly unpossessed
bee flew away. He saw it creeping into the stained trumpet of a Tyrian
After that nothing would do but that they empty and explore the well
a motive in art. You might see nothing in him. I see everything in him.
John! And I pity any woman who is married to a man called John. She
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_R.C._]  I shall do nothing of the kind.  [_Crossing
people. Will you take the time from me?
with the thorn in her heart.
trooping over the roads and meadows between the new-made Whateley ruins
left to right in endless bacchanale between the ring of bodies and the
LADY PLYMDALE.  [_To_ MR. DUMBY.]  Who is that well-dressed woman talking
of seeing a gentleman doing anything useful, Dorian put his hand to it
Yet he was not really reckless, at any rate in his relations to
No, dear Miss Prism, I know that, but I felt instinctively that you had
women one meets! There is something to me quite beautiful about her
I wish Uncle Jack would allow that unfortunate young man, his brother,
the top of a large brown bulrush; “no good at all, for he has gone away.”
Algernon Moncrieff: Mr. Allen Aynesworth.
repentance, but pleasure.  Repentance is quite out of date.  And besides,
intend to be.  Love is all very well in its way, but friendship is much
he motioned to accompany him inside. The inward sounds, except for a
some newspapers on the writing-table_.  _The distinction of Phipps is his
isits frequently, as
before man came, but there were arts which could revive Them when the
“My dear boy, you are really beginning to moralize. You will soon be
try to improve. Don’t be cruel to me, because I love you better than
and, that she might think of him all the more, she did not talk of him,
vulnerable.  You can’t defend it!  And I am in attack.  Of course I have
Dunwich had raised up. Armitage, half stunned, could only telephone
_2.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Put out the lights, Mason, put out the lights!
transferred immediately into the sphere of Art and there find its
distinctly for bread and butter, you have given me cake. I am known for
of dreams to heighten and continue the mystery at my uncle's expense.
This speech is the turning-point in his career, as _The Times_ points
LORD CAVERSHAM.  I don’t suppose there is the smallest chance of her
GWENDOLEN.
in the Frye yard, the wounded Seth Bishop cattle, and the enormous
me. I heard them hissing, and I smiled. What could they know of love
Bunbury I have ever had in my life.
there will be no difficulty about the Custom House, as the officers are
to heave alongside their enemy and board her, grappling with the
the _Dæmonolatreia_ of Remigius, in which he seemed hopeful of finding
“Well, I can’t help going to see Sibyl play,” he cried, “even if it is
Ah! pourquoi ai-je donné ma parole?  Les rois ne doivent jamais donner
mammals.
some day he may go out to walk with his nurse; and perhaps the nurse may
d given her, and
“You need not be afraid. Our countrymen never recognize a description.”
[_Moves away_.]
the curator told me, had found it a monstrous puzzle; for they vowed
Morning came wanly, and the night-sounds ceased. It was a gray, bleak
scattered the bodies of dead whippoorwills.
them!
extent and duration as the forces of physical energy.  The little cup
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Without the dreadful disadvantage of having a Penelope
March 1st--our February 28th according to the International Date
time. In fact, you are sure to be out of town. And if you keep it
you mention, a day that is for ever branded on my memory, I prepared as
up--slow-like--creepin' up ter the top this minute, heaven only knows
I feel that public disgrace is in store for me.  I feel certain of it.  I
ear.
That was all. After that Johansen only brooded over the idol in the
course, strong corroboration; but the rationalism of my mind and the
be lived without much charity.  It is love, and not German philosophy,
ALGERNON.
scattered plasticity of that nameless sky-spawn was nebulously
pulling his grey moustache now and then to hide an involuntary smile,
thing: that one should not bother too much over affairs.  The birds
wore nothing but violets all through one season, as a form of artistic
and ancient building with plastered front. A sad-faced woman in black
revient d’une forêt où il a tué un lion et vu des tigres dorés.  Ta
the shrine on the _Alert_, is poignantly visible
It was not till the third day that he ventured to go out. There was
LORD WINDERMERE.  Mrs. Erlynne!
hours that follow with leaden feet.
4
occupations; nor was her leisure much taken up by household cares in a
LORD GORING.  Please don’t, Miss Mabel.  I have something very particular
portrait. He was afraid of certainty. When the coffee and cigarettes
has been at the Foreign Office, he has been so much talked of in Vienna.
harm you, for against the purity of a little child the powers of Hell
in the mouth. It was certainly strange.
Gwendolen, upon my word!
How are you, my dear Ernest? What brings you up to town?
of the dying man. It was uncanny and unnatural--too much, thought Dr.
MRS. COWPER-COWPER          _Miss A. de Winton_.
never fallen into this error. She had a magnificent constitution, and a
the bad eend he desarved, is at the bottom of the breedin' of it. He
LADY BRACKNELL.
night, and had certainly made three of Lady Canterville's French
but husky and almost identical from every throat. For the terror had
MRS. CHEVELEY.  It really is of no consequence, Lady Chiltern.  I am so
Morning-room at the Manor House.
gravity of demeanour is especially to be commended in one so
viewless force and indescribable stench swept down from the hill to
the castle till he broke most of the slates, and then he ran round and
t before, and a
imagination. It was the imagination that set remorse to dog the feet of
I look him in the face again?  He would never forgive me.  [_Touches
LORD AUGUSTUS.  I have a very bad memory.  I really don’t remember which.
could have been no mortal staircase. The very sun of heaven seemed
noxious cult in Dunedin?
nnaturally belated
Blacksmith, when the funeral was over, and they were all seated
changed. There was the huge Italian _cassone_, with its fantastically
considerably tempered by the inveterate impecuniosity of most of the
curtsey as they alighted, and said in a quaint, old-fashioned manner,
LORD WINDERMERE.  Her husband died many years ago.  She is alone in the
It must be, if you say it. And now I am off.
immensely.  Every one was a great success except the Remarkable Rocket.
got very little sleep at night, in consequence of the mysterious noises
way back from Clark's Corners.
with startled eyes and lips parted in frightened pleasure he had sat
cough?
Which mannerly devotion shows in this;
afternoon several persons drove past to see the abnormal growth, and
all honeycombed Campanile, or stalk, with such stately grace, through
o have put you to any inconvenience.
the Saracenic world. That question, however, he did not deem vital;
noisome up there, and no sound could be heard from any direction. Of
comfortable chair?
table_.]  And what a wonderful fan!  May I look at it?
sensation of nightmare. Then, as their beds were quite close to each
sinks down into a chair with a gesture of anguish_.]  Oh, how terrible!
“No, little Swallow,” said the poor Prince, “you must go away to Egypt.”
No, men are so cowardly, aren’t they?
tentacled head surmounted a grotesque and scaly body with rudimentary
hellish diary, the more he was inclined to doubt the efficacy of any
ever really shown in the work one creates. Art is always more abstract
have promised to go round for ten minutes to see poor Lady Brancaster,
bold flight, for the reaction had taken something out of his soul. Then
last, and the hapless farmer's mind was proof against more sorrow.
and the very air is bitter with storm.  Hush! I hear my wife’s voice.
cadences, of more curious effects, of simpler architectural order, of
go this record of mine--this test of my own sanity, wherein is pieced
Of course it was.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  She must have had some curious hold over Baron
LORD WINDERMERE.  I am afraid—if you will excuse me—I must join my wife.
grey and brittle. Even the flowers whose hues had been so strange
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Just my sentiments, dear boy, just my sentiments.
MERRIMAN.
the piano, she makes quite enough noise for two people.”
JACK.
their subtlety and their charm. Perhaps, some day, the cruel look would
who had traveled all the way from New Orleans for certain special
MRS. CHEVELEY.  And you asked me to be your wife.
one of the first to be approached by the several outsiders who took
carriage.
_bric-à-brac_ shop, all monsters and dust, with everything priced above
GWENDOLEN.
everything ... in that stone ... it must o' come in that stone ...
both.  I grew careless of the lives of
are very wicked,” cried the old lady,
earlier architectural period than that of the neighboring region. It
Parliament and had a vague idea that a chemist was a person who made up
gone back to him in some vague realm or dimension outside our material
myself. I only knew that I had seen perfection face to face, and that
inheritance of sin and shame? Were his own actions merely the dreams
ship of Odysseus. Then, bolder than the storied Cyclops, great Cthulhu
to burn his accursed diary, and if you men are wise you'll dynamite
Then the germ of panic seemed to spread among the seekers. It was one
committed in your early days, Duchess?” he asked, looking at her across
about what they call the profligacies of their betters in order to try
CECILY.
left. [Jack groans, and sinks into a chair. Algernon still continues
LADY BASILDON.  [_Arching two pretty eyebrows_.]  Are you here?  I had no
should be on the lips and in the hearts of those who receive it.
pointing with a grimy finger through the steadily lessening rain.
esclave pour le soigner.  Quelquefois ils volent à travers les arbres, et
nothing more than a spectral deepening of the sky's blue, pressed down
heated on charcoal, being wholly negative in the borax bead, and soon
memory of the scene! He saw it all again. Each hideous detail came back
understand it.
have a feather touched.
of Professor Webb.
[Glares at Jack for a few moments. Then bends, with a practised smile,
of mankind's.
Wotton could just catch the gleam of the honey-sweet and honey-coloured
to him on the first day they had met, “To cure the soul by means of the
that gorgeous array of specious lusciousness not one single jot was
The painter laughed. “I don’t think there will be any difficulty about
emitted, and all trace of the thing vanished with the puncturing. It
and she had a perfect mania for going to church.
“I do not understand you,” said Sir Thomas, growing rather red.
poverty or sorrow.
life, I see also that to Christ imagination was simply a form of love,
To-morrow, Lane, I’m going Bunburying.
Ah yes, he usually likes to spend his Sunday in London. He is not one
everything that belongs to him, into a handful of ashes that I may
himself in his painted coffin.  He is wrapped in yellow linen, and
tell me you are such as they are!  Robert, is there in your life any
The grass had so far seemed untouched, and the cows were freely
Chamber was empty.
“Yes,” he continued, turning round and taking his handkerchief out of
St. Louis. Professor Angell, as befitted one of his authority and
sure that the sea and the ground were horizontal, hence the relative
companion, died. Briden's death reveals no apparent cause, and was
LORD GORING.  [_Slowly_.]  Yes; most men would call it ugly names.  There
mattings of infinite years of decay.
and one evening, as he was riding home, he was to see the beautiful
through man and things, that has helped me beyond any possibility of
pluck out your eye.  You would be quite blind then.”
a time, don’t they? It is so clever of them, and such a compliment to
now?  This woman has the place that belongs by right to you.  Oh! go—go
which was represented the starry sky, and Apollo driving a chariot
three-quarters feet tall.
Nothing will induce me to part with Bunbury, and if you ever get
amusement in life.
This verbal jumble was the key to the recollection which excited and
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_With a low bow_.]  I wish I could think so, Mrs.
masts of ships. Wreaths of white mist clung like ghostly sails to the
sky like a rocket or meteor, leaving behind no trail and disappearing
moment of his lonely childhood came back to him as he looked round. He
the wooden shaft to any depth in the mud of the floor without meeting
less than the tower of Giotto, Lancelot and Guinevere, Tannhauser, the
every moment lest the mask should be stripped from one’s face, and all
else at present. In fact, Bunbury is dead.
and a half, just in front of the Achilles statue, to the huge delight of
quite spoiled, and Basil will never paint you again. You really must
Lady Bracknell and Miss Fairfax.
l. What do you
lasted for three days . . . nearly.
both for him and
fantastic dusk was never terrible till the strange days. Then there
yourself in every way. He laid particular stress on your German, as he
being forced to kill them all,
“Are you better, my dear fellow?” he asked. “You seemed rather out of
AND
[Merriman retires.]
haven’t you?
insistence that one has, as it were, to garnish and sweep one's house for
into motion the forces of society, society turned on me and said, 'Have
He rubbed his eyes, and came close to the picture, and examined it
remembered what you had said to me on that wonderful evening when we
I’m afraid I’m not that. That is why I want you to reform me. You might
PHIPPS.  Three, my lord.  [_Hands letters on a salver_.]
heath where the black well yawned deep beside the tumbled bricks and
The veterinary shivered, and walked to the front door to drop the heavy
MRS. MARCHMONT.  So do I.  It puts one almost on a level with the
Morning-room in Algernon’s flat in Half-Moon Street. The room is
[_Enter_ MR. DUMBY _and_ LADY PLYMDALE _from the ball-room_.]
read as follows:
upper spaces. It was, he said, exactly like a smell he had found in the
many contemporary scientifiction stories. You will
things of life, and to have found pleasure in their company.  But then,
Verde Islands, gave a coloring of voodooism to the heterogeneous cult.
At last, liveried in the costume of the age, reality entered the room
tion of guardian, one has to adopt a very high moral tone on all
After two or three minutes of terrible silence, Dorian turned round and
However, that was all Narborough’s fault. He was dreadfully
the sculptor and give him the rebuke I thought proper for so boldly
“Dorian, Dorian,” she cried, “before I knew you, acting was the one
dark, as he now clearly saw was the case with the nearby vegetation.
to determine.
to know Bunbury. A man who marries without knowing Bunbury has a very
advise you to take Windermere away at once to Homburg or to Aix, where
LORD WINDERMERE             _Mr. George Alexander_.
know Baron Arnheim well?
intent, though its impressionistic execution forbade a very clear
always be friends.”
smirk and smile, and what the one says the other echoes with sickliest
you once phrased it, must have something in store for me. I fancied a
se sons seldom return to the moldering gambrel
The lamplight struggled out through the fog, and Hallward looked at his
“No; I think your nature so deep.”
He sighed, and took up the volume again, and tried to forget. He read
“She assures me so, Lady Narborough,” said Dorian.
isits frequently, as
“To exhibit it! You want to exhibit it?” exclaimed Dorian Gray, a
know what was abroad that night; and though the blasphemy from beyond
course it was the meteorite; and remembering how strange the men from
what you tell me about Robert, thoroughly delighted.  It shows he has got
SALOMÉ.  Je le veux.
to-day. I am awfully obliged to you.”
caution before audacity and see that it meets no other eye.
The dream-narratives and cuttings collected by the professor were, of
will speak to me now.”
angrily_.]
all dreams of the dank city ceased, and Wilcox emerged unharmed from
Suddenly he rubbed his eyes in wonder, and looked and looked.  It
weakness. It is the feet of clay that make the gold of the image
Dr. Armitage read for the first time a continuous passage of Wilbur
nothin' at all, only jest the bendin' trees an' underbrush.
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Smiling_.]  It is some of your nonsense, Cecil.
firm and precociously shaped nose united with the expression on his
ever set aside."
almost in the prime of life, eh, Phipps?
wonderful beginning!'  It may really be so.  It may become so.  If it
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What letter?
Because you are like a pink rose, Cousin Cecily.
am in.  No; I think I shall get through it.  I’ll give her a lecture
reagents. Water did nothing. Hydrochloric acid was the same. Nitric
shouldn't have been there; an angle which was acute, but behaved as
his grey ulster turned up. He had a bag in his hand. Dorian recognized
venin sur moi.  C’est étrange, n’est-ce pas?  Comment se fait-il que la
RCHMONT.  How very trivial of him!
week until he began stumbling and hurting himself, and then he shut
Then all that was left of him was the stick, and this fell down on the
with the artist who knows that by the inevitable law of self-perfection,
of the pail.
began to mumble without turning or raising its head. Dr. Armitage
_TO_
the six men who never reached the ship, he thinks two perished of pure
sailors had done by accident. After vigintillions of years great
And now about this woman, this Mrs. Cheveley.  How can I defend myself
quite discomposed by the singular odor he encountered--such a stench,
[_Starts as_ LORD WINDERMERE _enters_.]
service of the intellect, certainly, yet it was never to accept any
by some allied and bodiless line of linkage with sub-terrene horrors
“I felt sure you had. Did you make a scene with her?”
and prevents one from keeping it up. That’s all that can be said about
have seen this in the portrait. Did you really see it?”
darkness and telephoned from Osborn's in the village. He found Old
moving mountai
again, and the secret priests would take great Cthulhu from His tomb
Irem, the City of Pillars, dreams hidden and untouched.
upon an exquisite violin. He answered to every touch and thrill of the
ashamed of having been punished is one of the first points I must attain
This verbal jumble was the key to the recollection which excited and
face that rebuked them. His mere presence seemed to recall to them the
Doctor.  But he lives so far away, and it is such a bad night, that it
“Prince Charming,” she answered, looking after the victoria.
Mr. Hopper
within wheels.  One may be under certain obligations to people that one
since withdrawn before the tide of advancing humanity ... forms
ricaded
punish us they answer our prayers.
before. He thought of Wilbur, goatish and ominous, once again, and
ditch.’
_At the back of the stage a curtain is drawn across the window_.  _Doors
“That is what I have come to learn, Uncle George. Or rather, I know who
idea you ever came to political parties!
the real tragedy of the poor is that they can afford nothing but
LORD GORING.  I had no idea that you, of all men in the world, could have
LORD GORING.  I don’t know that I have been able to do much for you,
underbrush.
The Happy Prince
CECILY.
would talk morality after dinner.  I told him he was old enough to know
to imprison within his brain some curious dream from which he feared he
same ragged Flemish tapestry where a faded king and queen were playing
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.  [_Takes his hat_, _cane_, _and cape_, _and
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _walks up and down the room with a troubled
most themselves. It is what I call the depth of generosity.”
would be of no use.  It would ruin you.
d so he became like him.  We do not
profaner le temple du Seigneur Dieu.
swooped past the match-girl, and slipped the jewel into the palm of her
“You won’t? Then I must do it myself,” said the young man, and he tore
Vite, vite, dégrafez mon manteau . . . Non.  Laissez-le.  C’est ma
hideous news. The death had come to poor Thaddeus in his attic room,
no wind seemed ever to blow about. The trees near it were sickly
“For you I would throw over anybody, Duchess,” said Lord Henry with a
great central chimney, too, and fitted the rusty range with a flimsy
fragility_.  _Their affectation of manner has a delicate charm_.
, I found that little was known of
temptations.  Besides, if Hans came here, he might ask me to let him have
still the same.”
outside; a seemingly limitless legion of whippoorwills that cried their
LORD WINDERMERE.  Margaret, you’ll ruin us!
immorality should be their own special property, and that if any one of
cannot pay, or one on whom they have inflicted an irreparable, an
peut faire tout ce qu’il veut, César.  Enfin, il est le maître.  Ainsi,
admire him immensely for it.  I have never admired him so much before.
position.  From the latter tragedy you saved him.  The former you are now
Waterfront scum was far too common for special mention; though there
sun-bleached pillars, loitered a troop of draggled bareheaded girls,
Dorian Gray shook his head and struck some soft chords on the piano.
with the three professors from Miskatonic University who hastened out
clutched at it madly. “Where is the body?” he exclaimed. “Quick! I must
_He is evidently in a state of great mental excitement and distress_.
you for ages. But I suppose you will be back soon?”
splendidly
men clustered round the window Ammi gave a violent start. For this
wind blowing his long grey locks about his head, and twisting into
Poor Johansen's handwriting almost gave out when he wrote of this. Of
SALOMÉ.  Je n’y retournerai pas.
was ever admitted to the closely-boarded upper story.
face of the fainting man, and all stood trembling and nearly hypnotized
boucliers d’or et des casques d’argent, et qui ont de grand corps?
ar a
of the Church should be the playing of the tragedy without the shedding
I shall probably not be back till Monday. You can put up my dress
set me up here so high that I can see all the ugliness and all the misery
faded wholly away when they put it in a glass beaker. The beaker had
t it was Ammi, on one of his rare visits, who first realized that
“You are a very irritating person,” said the Rocket, “and very ill-bred.
GWENDOLEN.
it was Mis' Corey, George's wife that lives daown by the junction.
What have I done to deserve this?  I gave him all my life.  He took
kind of ague. For nearly twenty minutes, neither of the men spoke. A
are heard from the smoking-room_.  MRS. CHEVELEY _grows pale_, _and
last burst of music.  The white Moon heard it, and she
Australia.
altar-stone on the peak. It is almost erroneous to call them _sounds_
You’re quite perfect, Miss Fairfax.
for the entire meeting, was a commonplace-looking middle-aged man
merciful.
roused half the sleepers of Arkham and haunted their dreams ever
tion being from
about whom there is any scandal.
“To-night I go to Egypt,” said the Swallow, and he was in high spirits at
plain, never had my ruffs properly starched, and knew nothing about
that!”
. I went to look after a piece of old
skittish in the silent valley; and hunters cannot depend on their dogs
in hand required an infinity of research and experiment.
I have caught the effect I wanted—the half-parted lips and the bright
"Except on the Ghost! except on the Ghost!" shrieked the twins, as they
of the huddled men, a sense of doom and abnormality.... It was no
seront ouvertes . . . Le nouveau-né mettra sa main sur le nid des
uncouth of dialect, to consult the copy at Miskatonic,
the date of young Wilcox's seizure, and expired several months later
consent to my marriage with her.  That is all.
des pieds d’éléphant.  Aussi il y a des raisons d’État.  Celui qui quitte
our lives. If these elements of beauty are real, the whole thing simply
bitterness in her life, to break her idol, and, it may be, spoil her
shame.] Come here, Prism! [Miss Prism approaches in a humble manner.]
chance.”
He had looked at it through the window, and had seen that no stone
a compliment is sure to develop into a real friendship.
now lying before the meeting.
gasp. The others looked at him, and then quickly followed his own
which had sickened him at the Whateley farmhouse less than three years
es, what on earth could happen to you, Dorian? You have
rtion, and can often
denstern and
sale. Old Florentine. Came from Fonthill, I believe. Admirably suited
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Contemptuously_.]  The letter you wrote to Baron
as Frazer's _Golden Bough_ and Miss Murray's _Witch-Cult in Western
nothing to do with it.”
PARKER.  Lord Augustus Lorton.
Windermere says you may.  I know it is his present.
of a demon galleon. The awful squid-head with writhing feelers came
should fancy, however, that murder is always a mistake. One should
sometime as one of the great decadents; for he has crystallized in clay
“Ah! what a trivial view of life!” said the Rocket; “but it is only what
day”; and he sank down a little deeper into the mud.
together with the deceased's collection of strange books, for study
LORD DARLINGTON.  Really!  I am so sorry!  You’ll take a cigar, won’t
come over to the duck-pond.  I am off to look for my daughters.  I have
laughed mockingly at the village rumors of his parentage.
He was never specific, but appeared to think that they were not as
R'lyeh under the waters, should rise and bring the earth again beneath
have never seen any rose like it in all my life.  It is so beautiful that
_First Issued by Methuen and Co._ (_Limited     _February_      _1908_
to his quarters in three days; but to Professor Angell he was of no
They were horrid places, where men got intoxicated, and shot each other
Egeria and her pupil any longer.
same thing.” He stopped suddenly, and a gleam of light came into his
painting-table that was set beneath the high curtained window. What was
spoke of the dreams in a manner none could mistake. They and their
fond of their sister. When they had finished, Mr.
HÉRODE.  Assez sur ce point.  Je vous ai déjà donné ma réponse.  Je ne
what an age-old cult had failed to do by design, a band of innocent
went under some very black clouds as they crossed the rustic bridge
one sometimes learns that one has been through Dunwich.
Harry, promise me that you will never lend that book to any one. It
_her_, Tuppy.  [_Rising and going to him_.]
in every line of the mate's frightened description.
ALGERNON.
Street all profess complete bafflement, and which the survivor says
engagement, if one wants to retain any sense of the beauty of life, but
continued to be reported from year to year, and still form a puzzle to
the fireworks began to talk to each other.
which was too late.
for though he shared his mother's and grandfather's chinlessness, his
Algernon! I have already told you to go. I don’t want you here. Why
fixed routine of prescribed duties, as they tithe mint and rue, he
reading an English novel. It must be seven. No gentleman dines before
whole region and its hill
in the world so respectable as a good Shrewsbury and Talbot.  And now,
Then—but I don’t know how to explain it to you. Something seemed to
LADY BRACKNELL.
greatly above normal; but the whole condition was otherwise such as to
of literature.”
ter his fare had got in he turned his horse round and drove rapidly
the vacant abyss overhead there came a disquieting suggestion of
beside the bas-relief and the papers of Professor Angell. With it shall
we had left off, and there steals over us a terrible sense of the
young son been here?
interest in life.
coherent account could ever be gained. What the police did extract
The day after that--all this was in June of '82--the professors had
arise not long afterward, but there was absolutely none then. Even
know nothing of what they have done they need go no further than a bird
Let nothing be lost upon you. Be always searching for new sensations.
of mankind's.
have arrived at the romantic stage.  When I saw you last night at the
Court; in fact, the Prince and Princess were married yesterday in my
what old Castro had told Legrasse about the primal Great Ones: "They
The whole thing flashed across him. He had been tricked, foiled, and
l’ennemi ne sont pas aussi rouges.  Ta bouche est plus rouge que les
m’aurais aimée, et le mystère de l’amour est plus grand que le mystére de
He was almost convulsed with fright as he stumbled into the kitchen;
akin to the dream-sculpture of young Wilcox.
which to escape them. Across a covered bridge one sees a small village
n months, he began to
passion has made his face like pale ivory, and sorrow has set her seal
to an absolutely definite science.  With that wonderfully fascinating
florid, red-whiskered little man, whose admiration for art was
oncealed the secret of a man’s life.
through the windows. He read on by its wan light till he could read no
woman, a woman who comes between husband and wife!
handily about.
In Auckland I learned that Johansen had returned _with yellow hair
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Coldly_.]  My daughter, you mean.
subsidence into lethargy.
clematis, and year after year the green night of its leaves will hold
“Yes, Dorian, I suppose you were right,” said Hallward slowly.
window.
nature does not answer.  Like Gautier, I have always been one of those
superstitious rustics will say and believe anything. And so all through
fifteen. His lip and cheek were fuzzy with a coarse dark down, and his
morning, and silver as the wings of the dawn.
me so much.
confirmation of what my uncle had written, excited me afresh; for I
is so wonderful that it seems as if a child could reach it in a summer's
that you should thoroughly understand me.
Ammi would never go near the place again. It is forty-four years now
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Up by door_.]  I am really off now, Lord Darlington.
feebly rise, only to sink down again upon the place from which the
GWENDOLEN.
He stopped as he saw firm denial on the librarian's face, and his own
after both the man and his age have passed away.  With me it was
starlit mill-pond, with lovely water-lilies round her, like Ophelia?”
thing I have ever done. Do take the screen away, Dorian. It is simply
information unobtainable from any local source. His name was John
le clues to the nature, methods, and
was drawn up and the play began. Romeo was a stout elderly gentleman,
secretaries open them and hand them to him.  I dare not ask the servants
must have employed a cutting bureau, for the number of extracts was
despite a representation of half the world's expert learning in this
nk I can never possibly repay.  It is embalmed and kept
loves one, or the wife of a man who in one’s own house dishonours one?
arriver un malheur à quelqu’un.  [_Le bourreau descend dans la citerne_.]
uncle, the Hon. Thomas Horton. The sound of approaching footsteps,
feet, but before the ambulance could reach him he was dead. Physicians
first, with deep mellow notes that seemed to fall singly upon one’s
_front of him_.]  Don’t stir, I am merely going to finish my flowers.
through anything else!
LORD CAVERSHAM.  They have had a serious relapse, I am sorry to say.
give utterance, in Basil Hallward’s studio, to the mad prayer that had
above the murmurs of the gathering crowd there came the sound of a
have visitors.
There was a cry heard, and a crash. The cry was so horrible in its
“‘Why, what a good heart you have!’ cried his Wife; ‘you are always
VICOMTE DE NANJAC.  May I have the honour of taking you down to supper,
peril. It is the spectator, and not life, that art really mirrors.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  And you threw me over because you saw, or said you saw,
Mrs. Gardner was the next to see it from the window as she watched the
To me one of the things in history the most to be regretted is that the
Lord Henry looked over at Mr. Erskine. “Humanity takes itself too
all are,
which way wherever it goes.
frequent meetings and night trips to the woods attracted no little
black wind blowing the masts down and tearing the sails into long
other ladies.
were picked out with silver thread and coloured crystals. The morse
CECILY.
to the rhythmical screaming of vast flocks of unnaturally belated
MISS PRISM.
GWENDOLEN.
between the ground story and the peaked roof. They had torn down the
know.
shroud. Then the clock struck the quarter, and he felt the time was
the boy's fitten to make better use of 'em. He'd orter hev 'em as well
“That shall be given to you upstairs. I could not give it here. You
in the black dominion of the ancient and once passive nightmare.
describes a theosophist colony as donning white robes en masse for some
sealed upper part, and from bits of discarded lumber people concluded
you?
always telling one of things that are not going to happen, and making one
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Your house!  A house bought with the price of dishonour.
_Third Edition_                               _October_            _1909_
Well, I don’t like your clothes. You look perfectly ridiculous in them.
now resolved to visit Mate Johansen in Oslo. Sailing for London, I
firm hand.
century is wealth.  To succeed one must have wealth.  At all costs one
It was from the artists and poets that the pertinent answers came,
beer-barrel. Mercutio was almost as bad. He was played by the
LADY BRACKNELL.
more material.  The most complete editions are still in copyright in the
old sins could be destroyed by the madness of sins that were new.
the perambulator was discovered at midnight, standing by itself in a
you could have succeeded just as well.
pleasure I did not experience.  I threw the pearl of my soul into a cup
“They become you.”
seamstresses are so lazy.”
winter snow. Snow never seems quite so heavy on the blasted heath as
folklore were very conservative in what they inferred. The plants were
Algernon round the room.]
SECOND SOLDAT.  C’est une ancienne citerne.
stion.
“She has promised to come on the twentieth.”
observed on the floor of the ruined Whateley
Associated Press.
store for me: that for a whole year of my life, indeed, I was to do
VICOMTE DE NANJAC.  Ah! chère Madame, quelle surprise!  I have not seen
land.
Being ordered peremptorily to turn back, Capt. Collins refused;
park, and four of their number had stayed behind to help in the search.
e knew that he was going to die.  He had just strength to
behind the age.—Well, I am!  I should be sorry to be on the same level as
She offered security, peace, stability.  The sin of my youth, that I had
however, his terror of the twins prevented his leaving his room, and the
knelt before the little child.
foxes as they ought to be. Ammi listened without interest to this talk
were exchanged. "It spreads on everything organic that's been around
elle ne dit rien maintenant, Iokanaan, cette vipère rouge qui a vomi son
JACK.
swaths of disturbed vegetation in various places. The trail up and down
PHIPPS.  I understand, my lord.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Well, sir, I suppose I have a right to sneeze when I
stricken friend, "It come from some place whar things ain't as they is
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes.  Nowadays people seem to look on life as a
thought he had seen it for an instant that very morning against the
only concerned with what a particular thing is at a particular moment to
him.
Oh, that is nonsense.
feathery watchers rose and raced from sight, frantic at that which they
ideals—I know it, and for that I love you, Robert.
Mr. Worthing! Rise, sir, from this semi-recumbent posture. It is most
see with terrible vividness the damp Cyclopean city of slimy green
SALOMÉ.  Je vous demande la tête d’Iokanaan.
all the countryside. Trees, grass, and underbrush were whipped into a
fall, he soon made clear; and again I strove to think of some way in
for?” she inquired.
JACK.
heard the echoes of a burglar-alarm still shrilling from the library.
the parish, the Rev. Augustus Dampier, who is a Fellow of King's
G.  It is a matter of the gravest importance, Phipps.
and women were clustering in broken groups round their doors. From some
few words to the effect that the Government is going to reconsider the
piazza of Perugia, those who had hated him could not choose but weep,
Oh, I am afraid I am.
as of no avail. It was quite evident that his feelings
quivered with pleasure.
anything at all left on us at the end of an evening.  I know myself that,
street leading up from an ancient waterfront swarming with foreign
LADY CHILTERN.
tension Scheme on the
the two figures in the dim light of his lantern. They darted almost
virtually cut off from the world, and sometimes let Ammi do their
future crop. But with the ripening came sore disappointment, for of all
What was the unknown island on which six of the _Emma's_ crew had
[Enter Merriman.]
on the _Alert_ he speaks with significant horror. There was some
that monstrous blasphemy in quest of which the thing had perished.
to look at, and not at all easy to paint.
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Mais non; c’est un saint homme.  Il est très doux aussi.
and it was still alive after a fashion. Whether it had crawled or
and fore feet, and long, narrow wings behind. This thing, which seemed
Miss Fairfax.
a tawdry theatrical dress, with a sigh, and beginning to patch it. She
Well, I don’t see how I could possibly manage to do that. I can produce
to a
of an elaborately illustrated edition of Manon Lescaut that he had
realisation of some ideal, either in the mind of God or in the mind of
about the boy, who may have had some kind of a fringed belt and a pair
with blossoms of fire.  Huzza! Huzza! cried the Court; and the little
woman who didn’t love you, Cecil?
LADY MARKBY.  Well, dear Mrs. Cheveley, I hope you have enjoyed yourself.
Cabinet?
43' come upon a coastline of mingled mud, ooze, and weedy Cyclopean
“I should have said that whatever they ask for they had first given to
ways.
“All ways end at the same point, my dear Gladys.”
CHASUBLE.
soon, Lord Caversham!
her_.  _Her last glance is like a swift arrow_.  LORD GORING _bites his
the singular clay bas-relief, which was then exceedingly damp and
Henry peered through his glasses, murmuring, “Charming!
But the shying of horses near Nahum's house had now become an
the ear, crushing the man’s head down on the table and stabbing again
fairly full, but the two rows of dingy stalls were quite empty, and
dislikes, and indeed almost fears at evening when unseen whippoorwills
They walked side by side in the direction of the avenue for nearly
stretched across the Colosseum at Rome, that Titan sail of purple on
through her grandfather. Her grandfather hated Kelso, thought him a
a day on which one's heart is hard, not a day on which one's heart is
Seth Bishop's cut in. His haousekeeper Sally was carryin' on fit ter
there and back; and when he returned he was so tired that he went off to
answering the priest at Mass.
rich vase of alabaster that one of her seven lovers had given her, and
“There is no use your telling me that you are going to be good,” cried
LADY WINDERMERE.  It is a terrible thing, Lord Darlington.
lunch, of course, James.  At half-past one, instead of two.  The Duke
Mr. Worthing!
“He is not a gentleman, Mother, and I hate the way he talks to me,”
is indeed profound and authentic. He will, I believe, be heard from
“Foolish child! foolish child!” was the parrot-phrase flung in answer.
woman like me must have fresh air sometimes, and besides, I really wake
assistance whatever in this matter. One of them, a heavy tome with
Fortnight ago catch a very plain Discourse of evill Powers in the
There is certainly no chance of your marrying Miss Cardew.
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Oh, all of them, my dear, all of them, without any
everywhere were those hectic and prismatic variants of some diseased,
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Hem!  Well, look here, dear old fellow.  Do you think she
then you will tell us how it all came about.”
and, after a second hasty glance at the awful phantom, he fled back to
UN JUIF.  Mais non, ce n’est pas le prophète Élie.
know what was abroad that night; and though the blasphemy from beyond
laws. Their origin is pure vanity. Their result is absolutely _nil_.
said the girl, rising to her feet and going over to the window.
again on any pretext—never to see him—never to have anything to do with
You are perfectly right in making some slight alteration. Indeed, no
by moonlight, and stain it with your own heart’s-blood.  You must sing to
and foggy. At the corner of Grosvenor Square and South Audley Street, a
Outsiders visit Dunwich as seldom as possible, and since a certain
acknowledged thing, and all the basis for a cycle of whispered legend
JACK.
Your uncle would have to dine upstairs. Fortunately he is accustomed to
ound
he was married. I said he was engaged to be married. There is a great
said, to know oneself: that is the first achievement of knowledge.  But
But this murder—was it to dog him all his life? Was he always to be
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Taking her husband’s hand_.]  Ah, you’re marrying a
discerned, if discerned at all, by the historian, or the critic, long
Frye outbuildings, they debated the wisdom of waiting, or of taking the
ideals—I know it, and for that I love you, Robert.
MR. CECIL GRAHAM            _Mr. Ben Webster_.
trees and sang so sweetly that the children used to stop their games in
ecstasy of happiness dominated her.
possibly let you stand in front of that picture.”
“Oh, brothers! I don’t care for brothers. My elder brother won’t die,
swollen boughs of a maple against a moonlit sky. The boughs surely
all? But we are going to be christened this afternoon.
y two of the prisoners were found sane enough to be hanged, and
“Then you should certainly lecture on Philosophy,” said the Dragon-fly;
to sinister ears? I think Professor Angell died because he knew too
[After examining Cecily carefully through a lorgnette.] You are here on
Weakly rising, he gathered up the scribbled papers and sealed them all
JACK.
pavement and then hurrying after him. In a few moments, his hand was on
telling your wife the whole story.
stood there trembling at the black curve of the boxed-in staircase.
LADY WINDERMERE.  I have.  Would you prefer one of those?
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  And if it is all taken away from me now?  If I lose
LORD GORING.  I am charmed to hear it.  It is a reformation.
little out of practice this morning; and besides, I have to be going now.
Without knowing what futurism is like, Johansen achieved something
him_.]  Don’t stir, I am merely going to finish my flowers.
“He has certainly not been paying me compliments. Perhaps that is the
the water.
pays a visit it is for the purpose of wasting other people’s time, not
wind-whipped woods alone to his home on the main road. For he had had
of a mortal woman to whom the moment of his birth had proved also the
its downy red hairs and its “_doigts de faune_.” He glanced at his own
England . . . and myself.  [_Goes out_.]
Street of Pomegranates to a House of Go
of good looks; at least, good women have not. She said that he was very
Pierce remarked that the fragment was growing smaller and burning the
on the ground floor, and seemed to be taking out partitions as he and
first, with deep mellow notes that seemed to fall singly upon one’s
The Philistine element in life is not the failure to understand art.
of having been forced to reveal his own secret, he had succeeded,
Goring told me that if ever I was in trouble I could come to him for
and called them gods, monsters, mythical beings of all sorts
was of no use.  All his poor relations, to whom he would never speak,
LADY CHILTERN.  I will love you always, because you will always be worthy
nuits où la lune ne se montre pas, où les étoiles ont peur, ne sont pas
[In a bored manner.] Bread and butter, please.
was now scarcely five.
_with inarticulate sounds_.  _Then stops_, _and looks at_ LORD GORING.]
LADY CHILTERN.  I know that there are men with horrible secrets in their
told you it was a question of rational compromise.  It is no more than
jambs around it, though they could not decide whether it lay flat like
your guardian’s consent is, after all, a matter of any importance.
[Picture: Decorative graphic of nightingale and rose]
to quarrel with you. I have seen him, and oh! to see him is perfect
and, with its right hand, it bore aloft a falchion of gleami
never know where my wife is, and my wife never knows what I am doing.
of nerves. The officials devised excuses not to enter the noisome
strongly over us. Our weakest motives were those of whose nature we
Glances instinctively at_ LORD WINDERMERE _while he speaks_.]
disgraceful.
“It is rather fashionable to marry Americans just now, Uncle George.”
the charm of novelty.”
Yes, Lady Bracknell. I am on my way to join her.
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Dear lady, I am in such suspense!  May I not have an
do not like the way the sunlight changed colour around the mouth of
as they hated and feared young Wilbur personally.
stand anything rather than face the censure of a world, whose praise you
and wonders at the cluster of rotting gambrel roofs bespeaking an
are deserted and falling to ruin, and that the broken-steepled church
a star.
[Sternly, in a calm voice.] Yes, as usual. [Merriman begins to clear
letter and writes her husband’s name on it_.]
They from the air told me at Sabbat that it will be years before I
the canvas was growing old.
ball-room_, _where band is playing_.  _Door L. through which guests are
that has made him submit to—oh! call it what you like, tyranny, threats,
ordered specially for Aunt Augusta. [Takes one and eats it.]
the car stood empty near the ruins in the Frye yard. The natives, all
Uncle Jack, if you don’t shake hands with Ernest I will never forgive
this book.
for Their mode of speech was transmitted thought. Even now They talked
were awry. I did
“‘Good morning, little Hans,’ said the Miller.
is, wanted to put me out of suspense—and being told I had gone
ask it of you, though you have discovered what I had intended you should
begins to read it_.]
“I can sympathize with everything except suffering,” said Lord Henry,
tables and overturned chairs. Professor Rice declares that he wholly
Morning found Dr. Armitage in a cold sweat of terror and a frenzy of
have the worlds been built, and at the birth of a child or a star there
pedestal covered with undecipherable characters. The tips of the wings
practical politics, I have changed my mind.  That is all.
first-rate brand.
Hon. Gwendolen Fairfax
Bulkeley, from whom, as every one knows, the Dukes of Cheshire are
I have carefully preserved the Court Guides of the period. They are
spoke, and even the twins were awestruck and subdued, as they were very
"Well, really," said the Ghost, rather meekly, "what was I to do? It is
temptations that it requires strength, strength and courage, to yield to.
alkaline phosphates and carbonates.
great kindnesses that I have received here from almost everybody, and on
missed.
lip, and beats her foot nervously with her parasol.]
naturally want to talk to you about Bunburying. I want to tell you the
“Harry, don’t talk like that. As long as I live, the personality of
lost your figure and you’ve lost your character.  Don’t lose your temper;
After the banquet there was to be a Ball.  The bride and bridegroom were
cherries. He thanked him, wondered why he refused to accept any money
I would strongly advise you, Mr. Worthing, to try and acquire some
eeped in at the window and
thoroughly well-informed man is a dreadful thing. It is like a
altar-stone, were never to hear such syllables again. Instead, they
respectable girl.  I dismissed her at once without a character.—No, I
although none is known to exist in that part of the ocean; and six
direction of the Miller’s house, little Hans trudging behind him.
loses one’s own. In good society that always whitewashes a woman. But
Il brise au même temps les faibles et les forts.  Il n’a aucun souci de
frightened into a fit, from which she never really recovered, by two
we have to do.  I cannot put my sufferings into any form they took, I
came there was not an animal surviving on the place, for the stock
expressions and of elaborate paraphrases, that characterizes the work
mocking imps of Tartarus.
They worshiped, so they said, the Great Old Ones who lived ages before
Certain letters, as used in certain parts of the manuscript, emerged
the world, I am satisfied. Your friendship is dearer to me than any
cey was a-screamin' as haow it was jest
HÉRODE.  Non, non, je ne veux pas.
to have met Lord Goodbody there, and the whole conversation would have
woman, a woman who comes between husband and wife!
turquoise-stones, and a skull-cap _parsemé_ with pearls. Henry II. wore
as
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Princesse, je vous supplie de rentrer!
Oh! It is strange he never mentioned to me that he had a ward. How
realized how I have developed. I was a schoolboy when you knew me. I am
in this long-distance sprayer that might make it show up for a second.
started for the door to do something, but Ammi laid a shaky hand on his
the great priest Cthulhu, from his dark house in the mighty city of
just been wrecked. Let somebody lead the way--I don't know your roads
Oh, do let me read them, Cecily?
were blown against
nearer perhaps in type and temperament, many of them, and certainly
were similarly ornamented with the arms of the queen, the whole worked
the state of the poor that he is thinking but of the soul of the young
“Where, sir? Where is he?” he shouted. At the same time, the firing
I am glad to hear it.
well ... can't git away ... draws ye ... ye know summ'at's comin', but
HÉRODIAS.  Ces gens-là sont fous.  Ils ont trop regardé la lune.
Their deeds were so similar--and the fragments showed that they had
society that I adore you.  I wonder you consent to have anything to say
head downward, the oddly marred bodies of the helpless squatters who
word of honour.
ALGERNON.
done. And why is it so? Because, while I was painting it, Dorian Gray
swayed without wind. It was really lucky for Ammi that he was not more
though she does not know it, to bear the burden of my troubles more than
came the single glimpse of forbidden eons which chills me when I think
JACK.
should leave that to people who haven’t been at a University. They do
but Armitage now perceived with a sudden start that a loud chorus of
charred spot marked the place on the wooden shelf where they had been.
Why, if little Hans came up here, and saw our warm fire, and our good
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Ah, I thought so!
“Nonsense, Jim,” she whispered, stroking the sleeve of his coat.
changed color, as if from some circulatory cause normal to the
“And how did Lady Brandon describe this wonderful young man?” asked his
Besides, of course, there is the question of your name.
whitewashing.”
before our frenzied eyes.
a trap-door or slantwise like an outside cellar-door. As Wilcox would
Hot as it was, they tested it in a crucible with all the proper
blasphemy lumbered upon its eldritch course. _Negotium perambulans in
if it were obtuse.
the hermit the beasts of the field as his companions.
shrilly as he kept on laughing at intervals till death found him one
we inevitably direct all our desires towards pleasures, and seek not
not tell it to you.”
LORD GORING.  Sir Robert will take my cab, Phipps.
wake by passionate words some fire within me?  I am cold—cold as a
One dreads to trust the tenebrous tunnel of the bridge, yet there is no
that he had never even thought of searching it for Merwin or Zenas.
MISS PRISM.
attic, and in response to an inquiring look Nahum said that his wife
tedious time of it.
glimpses of truth, flashed out from an accidental piecing together of
really depends on you, Sir Robert.  [_Sits down on the sofa_.]
it. It made him a more interesting study. He had been always enthralled
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Questions are never indiscreet.  Answers sometimes are.
regarder?  Il ne faut pas la regarder . . . Il peut arriver un malheur.
the sky.
Renaissance that gave us Petrarch, and Raphael's frescoes, and Palladian
the way the great, overgrown mourning-cloak butterflies behaved in
By H. P. Lovecraft
from all who had still affection for me.  Even people who had not known
conceive the divided races as a unity.
live, what is sweet is so sweet to us, and what is bitter so bitter, that
"You are certainly very natural in America," answered Lord Canterville,
himself, that all really good people fall into, and from which none of
Then, suddenly, some night he would creep out of the house, go down to
distinction.”
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma.
to his mother, and also for other reasons, he had always hated and
“You don’t know his name, though,” said the lad harshly.
me a morbid statue whose contours almost made me shake with the potency
[_Enter_ LORD AUGUSTUS.]
Dorian had whispered to her. Lord Henry was lying back in a silk-draped
best gunpowder.  My father was a Rocket like myself, and of French
form. It was no longer _shining_ out; it was _pouring_ out; and as the
a very poor consolation to be told that the man who has given one a bad
of refuge for Man, denying him as the bird cried to the dawn; his own
Will Hutchins carried him to the roadside and laid him on the damp
MRS. CHEVELEY.  My prizes came a little later on in life.  I don’t think
“Pure family affection, I assure you, Uncle George. I want to get
lowing pitifully, having followed the boy back in the panic they shared
packing case.  However, it is a very young country, isn’t it?
which way wherever it goes.
But even all this was not so bad as the blasted heath. I knew it the
walk unassisted, with falterings which another month was sufficient to
obstacle. Then, as September approached, the clouds began to clear.
and looks into it_.]  And it spoils one’s career at critical moments.
into panels representing scenes from the life of the Virgin, and the
foolish thing.  Nobody is incapable of doing a wrong thing.
that the blight is spreading--little by little, perhaps an inch a year.
mountain rumblings would recur with greater and greater violence; while
birthday, Lady Windermere.  I would have covered the whole street in
JACK.
at the falls, built in 1806, form the most modern piece of architecture
blood-stained feet into his brain and reconstructed themselves there
LADY CHILTERN.  I could not have done so.
of nothing.
Johansen to speak more freely than he has done hitherto.
and they gouged rather than chipped a specimen to take back to the
kind are most useful.  They form the basis of other people’s marriages.
is one of the qualities in them that I admire most. A woman will flirt
exactly why. Perhaps one reason--though it can not apply to uninformed
mad. The picture had not changed. It was folly to think so.
LE PAGE D’HÉRODIAS
LORD WINDERMERE.  My dear child, you are not well.  You’ve been doing too
shall not run away, now that you have asked me to stop. You don’t
lower medder here, wadin' the brook at the low place, an' climbin'
Suddenly from a lumpy tussock of old grass some twenty yards in front
stone, with a subterrene voice or intelligence shouting monotonously
LORD GORING.  I . . . believe so.
pretty tough tussles sometimes."
passed into the dining-room.
LORD GORING.  I sincerely hope not, father.  However, I am delighted at
MABEL CHILTERN.  You might have followed us.  Pursuit would have been
[_Enter_ PHIPPS.]
but are thoroughly disliked by their friends; Lady Ruxton, an
being turned in the lock.
Wilbur was by this time a scholar of really tremendous erudition in
Professor Angell.
but husky and almost identical from every throat. For the terror had
in elaborate smoking-suits were handing tea-cakes to some of the women.
And in the sphere of thought, no less than in the sphere of time, motion
biting the end of one of his huge brushes and frowning. “It is quite
Are there many interesting walks in the vicinity, Miss Cardew?
of the pail. That was all. Nahum was past imagining, Mrs. Pierce was
curtain was lying. He remembered that the night before he had
of those who spoke. It had happened in the 'eighties, and a family had
had to say before he was thirty. His own neighbour was Mrs. Vandeleur,
and bedded itself in the ground beside the well at the Nahum Gardner
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  You are not going to plunge us into a European war,
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Shrugging her shoulders_.]  Don’t use ugly words,
lose both looks like carelessness. Who was your father? He was
JACK.
LORD DARLINGTON.
debate that some obscure lesion of the heart, induced by the brisk
music.  It sounded so sweet to his ears that he thought it must be the
“You gallop with a loose rein.”
burns, he said, an' is jest a cloud of colour like that light out thar
part of the pity for me that I have for you.” He turned away as he
indeed he somewhere describes himself; as a shepherd straying through a
Dunwich had raised up. Armitage, half stunned, could only telephone
glen itself. They would do that. I allus says Col' Spring Glen ain't no
Spells might be all right--but suppose they weren't? Voices began
CECILY.
afterwards. You have a town house, I hope? A girl with a simple,
As the men passed the site of Wilbur Whateley's abode they shuddered
Gwendolen, or to any one else. [Puts the card in his pocket.]
“We are only at the beginning of our friendship, Dorian,” answered Lord
committing a terrible crime, my man,” he said, looking at him sternly.
anything about it. But the world might guess it, and I will not bare my
“Basil,” cried Dorian Gray, “if Lord Henry Wotton goes, I shall go,
anywhere else, and early in March there was an awed discussion in
moon and Narcissus to Narcissus.
everything.”
ask how Wilbur called it out of the air. He didn't call it out. _It was
_Morning-room of Lord Windermere’s house in Carlton House Terrace_.
standing on the topmost ridge, virtually level with the altar-stone
“‘And how have you been all the winter?’ said the Miller.
library had been locked up at night by Mr. Otis himself, and the key
wants to consult you about some tapestries she is thinking of buying.
were over, and talk about the beautiful garden inside.  “How happy we
in probing his strange dreams, yet had never explained the reason for
the roses and zinnias and hollyhocks in the front yard were such
choose against me, but go back, go back to the husband you love.
well on me as a bracelet, doesn’t it?
[LORD GORING _goes into the smoking-room_.  HAROLD, _the footman shows_
more marvellous than the mother of Proserpina or the son of Semele.  Out
MABEL CHILTERN.  How horrid you have been!  You have never talked to me
By H. P. Lovecraft
deep ruts in the shadowy lanes between. The labour tired him more than
do not like the way the sunlight changed colour around the mouth of
great wings, and of a glimpse of shining eyes and a mountainous white
broke the stillness, except when, now and then, Hallward stepped back
firearms and plunged determinedly into the nauseous rout. For five
there seemed to be faint traces of the Widmänstätten figures found
"They whistle jest in tune with my breathin' naow," he said, "an' I
host adieu and took a train for San Francisco. In less than a month
had noticed in the face of the portrait seemed to linger there, to be
and shameful.”
parents seem to have lost me . . . I don’t actually know who I am by
“Harry, I want to finish this picture to-day. Would you think it
clam-bake, which amazed the whole county; the boys took to lacrosse
[Shakes hands.]
dawn. Some time before noon his physician, Dr. Hartwell, called to see
rules.
mannerism of style. No artist is ever morbid. The artist can express
bold flight, for the reaction had taken something out of his soul. Then
you think it will be a wet afternoon?
engaged to be married.
bring my friend, Mrs. Cheveley.  Two such charming women should know each
No one, even those who have the facts concerning the recent horror,
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Une ancienne citerne! cela doit être très malsain.
a sudden thought of the mad wife, and he changed his line of inquiry.
great inheritance throw not away—that tower of ivory do not destroy.
concealed the secret of his life. “I shan’t trouble you any more now. I
to Nahum's the next day they met with a bitter disappointment. The
n’écoute que les paroles du Seigneur Dieu.
watched them, and the great red poppies nodded their heads and beat time.
summons from the swamp and lagoon country to the south. The squatters
The Nightingale and the Rose              25
think about. There has not been a scandal in the neighbourhood since
that kind.
mountain to see what he might.
“A delightful theory!” she exclaimed.
The next January gossips were mildly interested in the fact that
unchallenged or uneradicated.
LORD GORING.  [_Airily_.]  The Times?  Certainly not.  I only read _The
no money, and far too many relations”; and indeed the river was quite
For saints have hands that pilgrims’ hands do touch,
he heard a nasty, slopping sound down there. Everyone listened, and
since it would be unnecessary to know the origin of the symbols if,
terrible sort than they had ever known; and some of their women and
seen at midnight on the top of Sentinel Hill where the old table-like
LORD DARLINGTON.  No, we are all in the gutter, but some of us are
You wouldn’t believe at what hours he comes home.  And he’s only left
considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow, I think you might
in 1896.  Private performances have been given in England by the New
LORD GORING.  Well, you see I gave this brooch to somebody once, years
JACK.
an early hour in the day.
-room. No sherry, thank you, Mr. Chapman.
dogs was all barkin' an' whinin' awful.
years!  A horrible painted mask!  You sold yourself for money.  Oh! a
Religion does not help me.  The faith that others give to what is unseen,
literary ambitions, but I gave them up long ago. And now, my dear young
LADY WINDERMERE.  That will do!
darling?  Is it a boy or a girl?  I hope a girl—Ah, no, I remember it’s a
allied to the European witch-cult, and was virtually unknown beyond its
quiet voice of his he expounded to us the most terrible of all
what to say or do. “Down on your knees!” growled the man. “I give you
ignorant, the common, and the vulgar. These are the sickly aims, the
“there are so many things that need reforming.  Indeed, I took the chair
rough stern son of hers. Her shallow secret nature was troubled when
life?  You would have no regrets?
As the presence of the three men seemed to rouse the dying thing, it
ALGERNON.
It was some consolation that Harry was to be there, and when the door
the pretty bride.”
to drive him from public life, or to make him adopt a dishonourable
Wilbur had with him the priceless but imperfect copy of Dr. Dee's
Exploded! Was he the victim of a revolutionary outrage? I was not aware
decay of centuries. It is always a relief to get clear of the place,
my business took me through and past it.
er. She was romantic, though. All the women of that family
shadows of art. You have thrown it all away. You are shallow and
LORD GORING.  Really?  What sort of work?
She was usually in love with somebody, and, as her passion was never
. . . Suffering is one very long moment.  We cannot divide it by seasons.
noises. Wilbur was four and a half then, and looked like a lad of
a dead professor. I hope that no one else will accomplish this piecing
away came the frantic barking of dogs.
These data, received with suspense and astonishment by the assembled
whole farm was shocking--greyish withered grass and leaves on the
she should not contract an alliance with him. I trust he is one of the
too often.”
curiously at the immense carved door with the now familiar squid-dragon
into the dining-room.
Mr. Worthing?
week of pointless and irrelevant accounts of thoroughly usual visions.
against me.
crocodiles lie in the mud and look lazily about them.  My companions are
HÉRODE.  Non, non.
CECILY.
right.
momentary notoriety of crime, but from a sort of eternity of fame to a
“Ah!
romance. You know her, at any rate, I suppose?”
did, even you would turn from me. You laugh. Don’t laugh.”
can help me at all.
“For God’s sake don’t talk to me,” cried Dorian, stamping his foot on
But it is not for any child, dear Doctor. I am very fond of children.
buttonhole, Phipps, on Thursday evenings.
Pray don’t talk to me about the weather, Mr. Worthing. Whenever people
reams of different persons, some of
It was intolerable. It seemed to crush him.
cultured Americans of the better class, such as the immense superiority
take copious notes both from the current sections and from those he had
horrible horned adders. The harsh intervals and shrill discords of
Uncle Jack seems strangely agitated.
were themselves patterns of some other and more
fault that this terrible tragedy has prevented my doing what was right.
that the dead man had not dared to realize? Here, from the fading
LADY BRACKNELL.
anything more about the matter.  I hate people who cry over spilt milk.
that—”
suggest true fever rather than mental disorder.
that mars our lives. We are punished for our refusals. Every impulse
eats amidst a crowd of watchers. The tulip-beds across
mingled astonishment and anger_.  LORD AUGUSTUS _turns away_.  _The other
will never leave the memory of the stricken group who heard them. Not
about the emotions of people whom one has ceased to love. Sibyl Vane
Those whom he saved from their sins are saved simply for beautiful
“I want you and Basil to come with me some night and see her act. I
monde tout entier il n’y avait rien d’aussi rouge que ta bouche.  Ta voix
[To Jack.] For my sake you are prepared to do this terrible thing?
[Inspects them, takes two, and sits down on the sofa.] Oh! . . . by the
knock and asked me my business without rising. When I told him who I
you to-night.
silver spray, and flapping his tiny wings.
am going to ride at eleven. We might go together, and I will take you
“and Life is very dear to all.  It is pleasant to sit in the green wood,
hinted at strange survivals in terms which would freeze the blood if
and possible translation; but even the best linguists soon saw that it
her voice seemed to catch in her throat. “You are not serious, Dorian?”
former experience. The Gardners took to watching at night--watching in
and would have crumpled to the ground had not two or three others
parts of books which during his own day had been heaped promiscuously
Baudelaire, sweet and plaintive in Lamartine, mystic in Verlaine.  It is
The chief of these outsiders, and in a short time the focus of interest
came convinced of his absolute sincerity, for he
stored away many rare and beautiful specimens of what is really the
stand in the right place, atween the rock falls an' Bear's Den."
not even for ready money.
remarked once, in a discussion on the subject, and there is possibly a
pasturage there sprang up a bizarre growth which only a botanist could
“There stood the Miller with a lantern in one hand and a big stick in the
that he has not often got such a chance of improving his mind.  However,
CECILY.
MRS.
world but you. I love you, Cecily. You will marry me, won’t you?
JAMES.  Sir Robert is still at the Foreign Office, my lord.
diary.]
salon of 1926. And so numerous are the recorded troubles in insane
SALOMÉ.  Faites sortir le prophète.
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  [_C._]  Ah, about dear Australia, I suppose?
“You are a sceptic.”
extra bar across it. Ammi shook no less, and had to tug and point for
No, it is some hideous mistake.  [_Rises and goes C._]  Some silly
“I think you are wrong, Basil, but I won’t argue with you. It is only
life upon sands of shame—that I sold, like a common huckster, the secret
He paused exhausted, as the whole group of natives stared in a
the brink of cosmic horrors beyond man's power to bear? If so, they
What a noble nature you have, Gwendolen!
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I thought so.  [_After a long pause_.]  Arthur, do
certainly odd, but all skunk-cabbages are more or less odd in shape
disuse of the road past Nahum's which led to its ultimate abandonment.
fortune.  Since then everything that I have touched has turned out a
their parents, as English women are at concealing their past,” he said,
Then the Swallow came back to the Prince.  “You are blind now,” he said,
“In the country, Harry. I was staying at a little inn by myself.”
stars all about it.  You will see them twinkle when I talk to them about
Compared to it there was nothing else of any value. It was true that as
The poor little Swallow grew colder and colder, but he would not leave
A man’s life is of more value than a woman’s.  It has larger issues,
SECOND SOLDAT.  Je ne sais pas.
r Rice declares that he wholly
on the withered violets.
post-facto diary--and strove to recall day by day that last awful
you should object to the name of Algernon.
quietly out of his house. In Bond Street he found a hansom with a good
usual, and observed that he had begun to look worried. The rest of his
certain hours from stated points at the bottom of the great ravines;
England people actually try to be brilliant at breakfast.  That is so
vaccination, confirmation, and the measles; both the German and the
long vermilion letters on the left-hand corner of the canvas.
He understood them now. Life suddenly became fiery-coloured to him. It
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Oh! I live on hopes now.  I clutch at every chance.
ACT DROP
as Sawyer mentioned the circumstance the crowd seemed to hear a
hand_.]  Well, I shall send a cipher telegram to the Embassy at Vienna,
who had _dreamed_ not only the figure and exact hieroglyph
he lined with tall, firm shelving; along which he began gradually to
temple, and of whose dol
“I am so sorry for it all, Dorian,” said Lord Henry as he entered.
existence till half an hour ago.
till next week, at the same hour.
LADY BASILDON.  I am positively dying for supper, Margaret!
what shall I say?—£2000 a year left to me by a third cousin—or a second
SCENE
very well, but I've an idea there might be a shorter cut across lots.
“Take that thing off the face. I wish to see it,” he said, clutching at
“I would sooner come with you; yes, I feel I must come with you. Do let
not help being frightened by the
that altar-stone up there, and pull down all the rings of standing
playing ninepins with his own bones upon the lawn-tennis ground. And
her life.  I tell you simply this—Mrs. Erlynne was once honoured, loved,
leather was horrible. It took him three-quarters of an hour to consume
southward where they were fully a month overdue. What this meant, no
glen itself. They would do that. I allus says Col' Spring Glen ain't no
whilst an architect had gone mad and a sculptor had lapsed suddenly
has once committed a murder could possibly do the same crime again?
don’t understand a single word of what I am saying.”
LADY BRACKNELL.
He stood there for some minutes looking at the dead body. As he rode
were the fascinating things in life. He pictured to himself with silent
had disappeared. It was inside this circle that the ring of worshipers
MRS. CHEVELEY.  How absurdly English you are!  The English think that a
unhappy, and I really don't know what to do. I want to go to sleep and I
all. Its texture was glossy, and upon tapping it appeared to promise
SECOND SOLDAT.  Vous avez raison; il faut cacher le cadavre.  Il ne faut
back, and a blank space was visible on the wall.
of the
stone stands amidst its tumulus of ancient bones. Considerable talk
ALGERNON.
It's some'at from beyond."
“Sing me one last song,” he whispered; “I shall feel very lonely when you
missing Zenas. "In the well--he lives in the well--" was all that the
As soon as it was over, Dorian Gray rushed behind the scenes into the
searchlight, giving dull reflections in the little ground pools where
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  When I was old, perhaps.
I beg your pardon for interrupting you, Lady Bracknell, but this
intensifies it. We can have in life but one great experience at best,
ries of words that made me love
rien au monde d’aussi rouge que ta bouche . . . laisse-moi baiser ta
and he took a great axe and knocked down the wall.  And when the people
relentlessly.
ALGERNON.
keep all your dear letters. [Kneels at table, opens box, and produces
away.
a sudden thought of the mad wife, and he changed his line of inquiry.
meant that we should voyage far. The sciences, each straining in its
window.
proie.  Il ne faut pas crier comme cela.  Votre voix m’ennuie.
with you in your house as a guest. I call it grotesque.
bas-relief.
memory of what he had done.
Court-ball.
Where he went to he hardly knew. He remembered wandering through dimly
Lord Henry looked in the direction in which the trembling gloved hand
fury; and the frightened crowd at the mountain's base, weakened by the
etrayed him.  I would to God I
LADY JEDBURGH               _Miss B. Page_.
was rising. It curled, a violet riband, through the nacre-coloured air.
life, and told his story. It had taught him to love his own beauty.
iron hoops beside it, both half-fused, seemed to hint at the remnants
“Well, you don’t mind my looking at the thing now?”
the steep green side of the hill. Then he handed the instrument to
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Yes.
cloths, and antique plate of gold and silver. Indeed, there were many,
ING.  Just as vulgarity is simply the conduct of other people.
because it suggests something Wilcox had told me of his awful dreams.
huddled inert on the moonlit ground between the splintered shafts of
advantage of t
d and stumbled as in a dream, and did
why, you must be worse even than those who talk against you fancy you
LADY WINDERMERE.  In a moment.  [_The music drops_.]
JACK.
veulent se cacher pendant la journée.  Les longues nuits noires, les
is the only thing worth having. When I find that I am growing old, I
and impressiveness, but no observer was in a mood for esthetic
ending paws still rested watchfully, had the leathery,
worthy man.
Steam had not been suffered to go down entirely, despite the departure
about his mother's disappearance, and very few ever approached his
interminable time over everything.
"MAKING SATIRICAL REMARKS ON THE PHOTOGRAPHS"
strokes of cosmic potency. Briden looked back and went mad, laughing
starting back.
his breath is like frankincense.”
“That awful thing, a woman’s memory!” as Lord Henry had once said.
into an amateur curate for the moment always began by saying that, and
the road outside, and nearly drowned its owner's faint quaver as he
he made of himself the image of the Man of Sorrows, and as
firm hand.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Lord Goring!
LADY MARKBY.  Really?  One wouldn’t say so from the sort of hats they
“I am rather afraid that I have annoyed him,” answered the Linnet.  “The
LADY BRACKNELL.
“‘Good-bye,’ said little Hans, and he began to dig away quite merrily, he
frankly accept, and, curious as it may seem, one of the things I shall
then?” he asked.
sort of speech I like.  Well, you shall hold my bouquet.  [_Goes towards
better days.”
cannot spare you. And now you had better dress and drive down to the
call the purple of commerce, or did he rise from the ranks of the
understand what the Nightingale was saying to him, for he only knew the
dark-eyed_.  _A personality of mark_.  _Not popular—few personalities
the formal publication of the society. Caution is the first care of
an Australian journal, _Sydney Bulletin_ for April 18, 1925. It had
madness for pleasure. They have gone down into the depths. You led them
of the odour and sweetness of nard.
rattle of cups and saucers and the hissing of a fluted Georgian urn.
Mother. I know it pains you to talk about our father. But it only pains
But what does he see in me? I am not worthy of him. And yet—why, I
It was from the artists and poets that the pertinent answers came,
House of Commons, and only people who are dull ever succeed there.
“Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “will you not stay
waterfront. It was owned by a curious group of half-castes whose
and hue. Perhaps some mineral element from the stone had entered the
had leaned over the still pool of some Greek woodland and seen in the
admitted that there was very little to examine. Specimens could be
There were rumblings under the hills that night, and the whippoorwills
a cane. He sought to elaborate some new scheme of life that would have
leaden table with red gutters scooped out in it for the blood to flow
Cthulhu was loose again, and ravening for delight.
This earlier experience had come in 1908, seventeen years before,
Dunwich people by giving any hints or clues. He hoped that it might
pleasure?
centre of pain.  The paralysing immobility of a life every circumstance
and Aylesbury to look up property and notify any who might be heirs
igneur.
lf.” And he walked
In her dealings with man, destiny never closed her accounts.
after all, who are you?  Only a Student.  Why, I don’t believe you have
backed them, making quivering disks of light. The floor was covered
.  Surely Love is a wonderful
MRS. CHEVELEY.  What do you know about my married life?
Legrasse, deeply impressed and not a little bewildered, had inquired
often you don’t make sufficient allowances.  In every nature there are
considered generous by Society as he fed the people who amused him.
Press, telling what a record-breaking monster the bootleg whisky of
common pattern.
clouded father would say. Then there flashed across the visitor's mind
“My dear fellow, I am not quite serious. But I can’t help detesting my
sh had been something else--something which
smiling as he did so, and passed into his bedroom, where his valet was
ruin, to save you from the consequence of a hideous mistake?  That letter
before the father could get to the door the boy was gone. There was no
She began to complain. Women defend themselves by attacking, just as
seem too large, and the wild weeds, brambles, and grasses attain a
must remain. By Tuesday he had a definite line of action mapped out,
[Enthusiastically.] Frederick! At last!
us where people don’t talk politics.
into delirium! And what of this storm of April 2nd--the date on which
and transient indeed. There had been eons when other Things ruled on
d spoke of espial and discovery. This
tal Importance of Being Earnest.
walk there are thorns.'
not dare look back till they were far away on the high ground.
Lord Henry watched him with a subtle sense of pleasure.
painter was silent and preoccupied. There was a gloom over him. He
“One may lose one’s way.”
New Jersey, the curator of a local museum and a mineralogist of note.
Through quickly re-closing vapours they followed the great morbidity
as he was flying down the river after a big yellow moth, and had been so
shine, and a sound of music came from the palace.
toujours ma fille, vous qui avez voulu la faire danser pour votre
No; that was impossible. Hour by hour, and week by week, the thing upon
very much more money than you have, and quite as much as Robert Chiltern
nighted woods like pestilential tempests from the gulfs of hell.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
LADY CHILTERN.  I think so.
the canvas, and now at the fair young face that laughed back at him
e home, and when she
* * * * *
would be of no use, and hoped that the summer's strange growths would
LORD GORING.  I don’t know how the betting stands to-day.
thought that even for a moment I could have doubted your goodness?
from whom he inherits that.  Lord Allandale was saying to me only
company with the Town Councillors.  As they passed the column he looked
it was oddly soft. It was, in truth, so soft as to be almost plastic;
the second.  Words are perhaps the worst.  Words are merciless. . . . Oh!
sense of dread expectancy, the darkness, the steepness of the narrow
came the storm of April 2nd, and a gathering of the clouds about his
took out the key and turned
ittle Hans.
him.”
_net_) _1914_, _Twelfth Edition_ (1_s._ _net_) _1915_,
what was found in the attic and under the red checked tablecloth on
of your great renunciation. Even as a beginning, it is poor. Besides,
changed since then.  No one should be entirely judged by their past.
all.  Oh, don’t imagine I mind about the money.  As far as I am
y. “I sometimes
himself and his daughter. There must have been prodigious reserves
qui étaient là me l’ont dit.  Aussi il a guéri deux lépreux qui étaient
was usually sacrificed. There was talk of a complaint to the Society
W. Longitude 152° 17', with one living and one dead man aboard.
How wonderful the whole world became to one! To note the curious hard
new sensation.  What the paradox was to me in the sphere of thought,
LORD DARLINGTON.  How do you do, Lady Windermere?
me personally, hearing that a new sorrow had broken into my life, wrote
one can behold Them as They tread.
curved lips, he led me through his wonderful picture gallery, showed me
most certainly shrunk, and even the sober professors could not doubt
remaining young is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming.
laws for men as there are for women?
the road, were now neighing and pawing frantically. The wagon driver
deteriorated since I knew him first.
to the central idea of their loathsome faith.
.
about them, in which the dark fears of rustics were held up to polite
masterpiece. It is my masterpiece as it stands.”
“I trust you.”
[_Les soldats s’élancent et écrasent sous leurs boucliers Salomé_, _fille
so as to help them.
he must, at the very least, have received more responses than any
to taste no other food, ignorant all the while that we may really be
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _enters from behind_.  _He hears his wife’s last
external things and making its raiment of earth and air, of mist and city
that it is not Mr. Ernest Worthing who is your guardian?
When first I was put into prison some people advised me to try and forget
towards the curtain C._]
alive and conscious without complete and tightly buttoned attire, the
ay into the paths of
and all animal and vegetable life from the earth by some terrible elder
smell like he smelt when he faound the big tracks las' Monday mornin'.
bottom of the pail. Truly, it was not large, but perhaps they had taken
with his lungs filled with breathable air. When he did enter he saw
the good rewarded. Success was given to the strong, failure thrust upon
asking for nightly reports
saound o' wood a-startin' to crack an' split. An' all the whiles he
particularly, as I told you—and that is what makes it so dreadful about
into any form was death.  He saw that people should not be too serious
My dear Aunt Augusta, I mean he was found out! The doctors found out
Outsiders visit Dunwich as seldom as possible, and since a certain
and the Clove-Pink bloomed or blossomed in their proper order as the
have laid down for our guidance. I think some preliminary inquiry on my
and at the end of the tests the
bitterly I have been punished for it!  No; my punishment, my real
good terms with the world_.  _He is fond of being misunderstood_.  _It
but they was a haff-shaped man's face on top of it, an' it looked like
influences were at work within him. Yet they seemed to him to have come
ago.
writhing and struggling below the black roots.
fill him with anger and alarm. His contrast with his squalid mother and
He rushed at him and dug the knife into the great vein that is behind
LORD WINDERMERE.  You are talking of Mrs. Erlynne, I suppose?  I only met
rotting wall intensified by its hint of morbid habitation a depression
ely to learn too much. Whether I shall go as
iron hoops beside it, both half-fused, seemed to hint at the remnants
a poet and the body of a beggar he found the way to perfection not
laurel and of the wild parsley, which else had been of no service to men.
tourists. Two centuries ago, when talk of witch-blood, Satan-worship,
“Certainly. The park is quite lovely now. I don’t think there have been
beautiful, Dorian,” he said, “but she can’t act. Let us go.”
CHILTERN _and_ MRS. CHEVELEY, _who now enter_.]
SALOMÉ.  Que c’est bon de voir la lune!  Elle ressemble à une petite
the thing fade away. Of course, one can't be sure, but we can always
indeed in English.
* * * * *
LADY CHILTERN.  [_After a pause_.]  Why do you not answer it?
is probably a member of the aristocracy.”
to you to-morrow.  [_Exit_ LADY AGATHA _with_ MR. HOPPER.]  And now
spoke of the dreams in a manner none could mistake. They and their
the Gothenburg dock, a bundle of papers falling from an attic window
“You have saved me from ruin, Alan. I cannot forget that,” said Dorian
how I shall play it! Fancy, Jim, to be in love and play Juliet! To have
single moment’s solitude. The only really safe name is Ernest.
fear. As the summer drew on he felt dimly that something ought to be
for whom “the visible world existed.”
LORD WINDERMERE.  Oh, I am not going to mince words for you.  I know you
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Drift apart?
_ennui_, Dorian. That is the one sin for which there is no forgiveness.
They worshiped, so they said, the Great Old Ones who lived ages before
honest man was not his aim.  He would have thought little of the
he were thinking about some very important subject.  But they took no
ttom of the great ravines;
mountain rumblings would recur with greater and greater violence; while
dead, Romance is dead,” she murmured.  She was one of those people who
found out that what she had said was really true.  Of course I made
danser dans le sang!  Il y a du sang par terre.  Je ne veux pas qu’elle
allied to the European witch-cult, and was virtually unknown beyond its
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Will you go and look over the photograph album that
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Biting his lip_.]  I was mistaken in the view I
Roman letters as best he knew how. But just now of prime significance
As they entered the studio, Dorian Gray put his hand upon Lord Henry’s
o man can tell whence
side, from my stand-point, from the standpoint of men.  But don’t let us
was drowned.  His body was found the next day by some goatherds, floating
anything in the matter. It is insane of you to ask me.”
insisted on seeing him for a while, and departed trembling and
different colours, so that they might suit his various moods and the
A quarter of an hour afterwards, amidst an extraordinary turmoil of
to land, and it is quite clear to me that
with five hundred and sixty pearls. This taste enthralled him for
d
heard all about it the other day from a critic who was walking round the
in odd corners of the various rooms.
backwaters. They have come to form a race by themselves, with the
soon as possible and to bring the things with him.
heard of the cult in some indirect way, and of having invented a series
for them, and began to eat them listlessly. They had been plucked at
lordship on the table.
and whereas it had been a good seven feet across the day before, it
joy, greater than any joy they brought, or could ever bring, to the
SCENE—Same as in Act I.
not yet revealed his real name. I think it is quite romantic of him. He
Two globe-shaped china dishes were brought in by a page. Dorian Gray
look at those yellow tulips.  Why! if they were real crackers they could
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Come and bid good-bye to Lady Windermere, and thank
anthropoid outline, but with an octopuslike head whose face was a mass
And I really shall have no difficulty.  When you really want love you
House of Lords is so sensible.  An assembly of gentlemen.  But in his
certainly, if you wish it.  Aunt Caroline, allow me to introduce Mrs.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  How you men stand up for each other!
your tired servant and told him to go to bed, as he let me out. I am
and the quattro-cento work of Burne-Jones and Morris, belong to him no
There was once a road over the hills and through the valleys, that ran
my German lesson.
in his youth.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Take care—you had better be careful.
e acid solvents
fountain-head.
season of horror all the signboards pointing toward it have been taken
became dear to him now for that very reason. Ugliness was the one
METHUEN & CO. LTD.
towards door of ball-room_.]
waiting. She wrung her hands in mock despair. “How annoying!” she
They must be hidden away somewhere. He unlocked a secret press that was
words, and the Arkham men started violently when those words developed
all. Less inexplicable was his fitting-up of another downstairs room
abandoned again. The door swung listlessly open, and when Earl Sawyer
saw how things stood, and tried to answer lightly.
Editions_ (1_s._ _net_) _1913_, _Eleventh Edition_ (1_s._
_February_ 22_nd_, 1892.
indicated; and most of the natives followed slowly.
presence of that woman here?
LORD GORING.  Of course it is.
loveliness of their blue, the noble curves had not yet completely
surely overtake the _Alert_ until steam was fully up, he resolved
“Even when he is wrong?”
“My dear Dorian, I should think Miss Vane was ill,” interrupted
consultations of the monstrous diary brought about various changes of
that room, my lord.
LADY CHILTERN.  Yes.  You have guessed it.  After you left last night I
forefinger began to point shakily and impressively.
Virginia grew quite grave, and her little lips trembled like
feel proud, terribly proud. Mother, did you love my father as I love
[CECIL GRAHAM _goes back to C. table_.]
The Nightingale and the Rose.
though the Emperor Anastasius offered five hundred-weight of gold
the tall, graceful young man who was standing by him. His romantic,
unscientific cant, to have become a deeper man is the privilege of those
I don’t know, Mr. Moncrieff.
man had been
to-day, and that at all costs it must not reach him.  [_Goes to the
coal-black hair and dark eyebrows.
HÉRODIAS.  Ce n’est pas à cause d’eux que vous restez.
“Ah, my dear Basil, that is exactly why I can feel it.
rings of rough-hewn stone columns on the hilltops, but these are more
legal document, and the existence of these jewels has been quite
producing a kind of momentary Japanese effect, and making him think of
themselves on the intricacies of the pattern before him. He heard
disgrace in the house of another to save me. . . . There is a bitter
fresh mode of perfection.  I long to live so that I can explore what is
triumph_.  _There is joy in her eyes_.  _Youth seems to have come back to
of them accounts of the queer dreams of different persons, some of
music-room, when I was quite unprotected, as there was an elaborate trio
“Sibyl is the only thing I care about. What is it to me where she came
say you couldn’t love me then?
felt the full force of that earthquake-born tempest which must have
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Speaking with great firmness_.]  Arthur, I am
JACK.
Sur une gamme chromatique,
soldats_.]  Venez ici, soldats.  Descendez dans cette citerne, et
suggest true fever rather than mental disorder.
“Even when one has been wounded by it, Harry?” asked the duchess after
Oh no! I live here.
DUMBY.  Mrs. Erlynne has a past before her.
Goring.  Seriousness would be very unbecoming to him.  Good afternoon
MISS PRISM.
On April 2nd at about 3 p. m. every trace of Wilcox's malady suddenly
"_Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn._"
JACK.
could give him any private information of real value he would make me a
[To Jack.] My own! But what own are you? What is your Christian name,
significant to my uncle formed the subject of the second half of his
monstrueuse.  Enfin, ce qu’elle a fait est un grand crime.
hardened to their May Eve and All-Hallow orgies. Twice a year they
examined it.  I cannot trust you.  You, whose whole life is a lie, could
LANE.
gentleman got up in a marked manner and went out. Curious stories
Two red sparks flashed for a moment in the woman’s sodden eyes, then
ALGERNON.
through two centuries of Whateleys, and which were fast falling to
egarder.  Quel plaisir cela pourrait-il vous donner?
[Enter Dr. Chasuble.]
balasses.” The favourites of James I wore ear-rings of emeralds set in
Windermere—  Mrs. Erlynne has done me the honour of accepting my hand.
place.
being immeasurably the stronger during the period of the sculptor's
polite good-bye to the captain, and go off at once to the gold-fields.
Only with persistent knocking could I rouse the aged man, and when he
unnatural sparks and substance; blurring the glance of the few who saw
use of that fund of old-time gold which still, as in his grandfather's
your object?  [_Crossing L.C. and sitting_.]
presence of that woman here?
_.  _He is
was wrong with all Nahum's folks." When the early saxifrage came out it
Village failed to bring out much that was new; but a close survey of
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I am afraid I am not fond of girl friends.
strokes of cosmic potency.
Do not ask me for my opinion. I do not know--that is all. There was no
if it were obtuse.
_The only light there is comes from the great chandelier that hangs over
and the negative finally won.
[Sweetly.] Sugar?
LE PAGE D’HÉRODIAS.  Mais qu’est-ce que cela vous fait?  Pourquoi la
large silver-cased blotting-book that is lying on the table_.]
“Mother, Mother, I am so happy!” whispered the girl, burying her face
wings; but it was the _general outline_ of the whole which made it most
The shock served to loosen several tongues, and embarrassed whispers
“To see him is to worship him; to know him is to trust him.”
Arnheim, when you were Lord Radley’s secretary, telling the Baron to buy
LORD CAVERSHAM.  I wish you would go into Parliament.
Corpse-Snatcher of Chertsey Barn," one of his most remarkable
died, and about which the mate Johansen was so secretive? What had the
cryptograms, in which many separate lists of corresponding letters are
Cecily.]
to the end of the pond, and stood upon her head, in order to give her
you will tell me everything you do.”
this time by day_! It's aout--it's aout an' a-movin' this very minute,
TIGELLIN, un jeune Romain
“He worked there all day long, till sunset, and at sunset the Miller came
there seemed to be faint traces of the Widmänstätten figures found
undeceive him.
had blown the fog away, and the sky was like a monstrous peacock’s
keenly affected. Upon retiring, he had had an unprecedented dream of
"Then fur ahead where Bishop's Brook goes under the rud he heerd a
had disappeared. It was inside this circle that the ring of worshipers
a wet mackintosh.
JACK.
confused babel of voices sounded down the road. Another moment brought
there. Yes: you led them there, and yet you can smile, as you are
any definite structure or building, he dwells only on the broad
of my grand-uncle, George Gammell Angell, Professor Emeritus of Semitic
was nothing of this earth, but a piece of the great outside; and as
well-defined mental and physical stigmata of degeneracy and inbreeding.
ALGERNON.
My dear fellow, the way you flirt with Gwendolen is perfectly
non-Euclidean, and loathsomely redolent of spheres and dimensions apart
“Good night, then.”
blossoms are to the black branches of the trees that show themselves
amusement the tedious luncheon that he had missed by staying so long
the building, stooping at each doorway.
_1. The Horror in Clay._
face to face with the young man whose personality had so strangely
Lord Henry knew what women were. Why should he trouble about Sibyl
CECILY.
[_Enter_ PHIPPS _with drinks_.]
“‘As I was his best friend,’ said the Miller, ‘it is only fair that I
closing his eyes, placed his fingers upon the lids, as though he sought
o.
chatter at tea-parties in the afternoon. They have their stereotyped
lives by repetition, and repetition converts an appetite into an art.
squabble upstairs.”
rode past the farm this morning, I saw her white face at the window,
were accompanying the gestures. The weird silhouette on that
Erlynne—£700—Mrs. Erlynne—£400.’  Oh! it is true!  It is true!  How
telling the city people at Arkham who laughed at everything. Thad was
CECILY.
look at. If you wish the best work I have ever done to be hidden from
Prisoners' Aid Society and other modern movements of the kind.  The
me a morbid statue whose contours almost made me shake with the potency
indiscretion—that she should not forgive your sin?
_The octagon room at Sir Robert Chiltern’s house in Grosvenor Square_.
strong upright nature. He is the very soul of truth and honour.
Cecily look at him in indignant amazement.]
pulled out his watch. It was twenty minutes to two.
Your mysterious young friend, whose name you have never told me, but
LADY BRACKNELL.
are of age and free from the restraints of tutelage. So I don’t think
half-hour, but collapse, greying, and disintegration were already far
he said:
HÉRODE.  Mais César ne vient pas en Judée.  J’ai reçu hier des lettres de
began to whimper.
lying to me!
solicitor’s office. Solicitors are a very respectable class, and in the
plaisir.  C’est ridicule de dire cela.  Moi j’ai eu un enfant.  Vous
wheezing to choke out a few words to his grandson.
Then that is all quite settled, is it not?
the roses and zinnias and hollyhocks in the front yard were such
underlying primary tone without a place among the known tints of earth.
imperative need of a long conference with Rice and Morgan. His wilder
CHAPTER XII.
entré dans le monde.  Ne me parlez pas.  Je ne veux pas t’écouter.  Je
Imogen is waiting for me. Don’t forget about to-morrow.
whose rear end was buried entirely in the rocky hillside, and whose
“‘What a delightful time I shall have in my garden,’ he said, and he went
proud and handsome he was, with his chestnut curls and insolent pose!
“It was suicide, Alan.”
in the corners does not re-appear in his tale as a moving object.
on flapping membranous wings.
entitled to give yourself that name, Dorian,” answered Lord Henry with
"the moving colours down there." Two in one family was pretty bad,
him. His mode of dressing, and the particular styles that from time to
reticulated hide of a crocodile or alligator.
“I know so. As for what I said to you to-night, I said it for your
himself down on the sofa. “I hope it is not about myself. I am tired of
affair, you would never be able to talk morality again.  And in England a
compare notes. As it was, lacking their original letters, I half
drove by one night in ignorance of the country legends. What he told in
vulgar, or laugh, which is worse. But German sounds a thoroughly
Dorian, pouring himself out some wine and frowning slightly.
know all about my life, as far as its follies go, I can discern something
dinners, in the settling of which Lord Henry always assisted him, were
is indeed profound and authentic. He will, I believe, be heard from
acre's extent, clear of trees and tolerably dry. On this now leaped and
sure that the sea and the ground were horizontal, hence the relative
the water had been emptied. It had a very queer colour, and as all the
[_Enter Guests_, LADY CHILTERN, LADY MARKBY, LORD CAVERSHAM, LADY
way, Dorian, you ran off very early last night.
all.
scenes and half-sounds not unlike those which Wilcox had described;
[_Enter_ LORD CAVERSHAM.]
preached the enormous importance of living completely for the moment.
girls—they’re always talking scandal.  Still, I should go to Homburg,
THIRD ACT
Rice, beside him, took from a valise a metal sprayer of the sort used
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  All such experiments are terribly dangerous.
the yellowing trees fly through the air, and the red leaves dancing
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Interrupting_.]  Duchess, Duchess, it’s impossible!
more than the passions, and gave to the intellect a quickened sense of
love you.  Can’t you love me a little in return?
most pleasant. I am so glad I’ve seen him.”
He stopped as he saw firm denial on the librarian's face, and his own
A face without a heart.”
as she went on. Her gestures became absurdly artificial. She
and simple.
advantage of the convocation to offer questions for correct answering
“In the square below,” said the Happy Prince, “there stands a little
one who had terribly loved him had written to him a mad letter, ending
from? From her little head to her little feet, she is absolutely and
Examined at headquarters after a trip of intense strain and weariness,
and some of them will doubtless linger even when half the hollows are
down to the coast in a waggon guarded by six mounted policemen. The
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_With a look of mock surprise_.]  Yes; the usual palm
something--it's a blind business, but I know how to make the powder....
bright dawn flooded the room and swept the fantastic shadows into dusky
fierce cries of the savage watchdog on the college campus. Deep and
could be so vast.
houses in Their great city of R'lyeh, preserved by the spells of mighty
goes out with_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  LORD GORING _saunters over to_ MABEL
“What was that, Harry?”
“Mr. Campbell, sir,” said the man.
The Nightingale and the Rose.
SECOND SOLDAT.  Nous ne comprenons jamais ce qu’il dit, princesse.
world. No wonder Basil Hallward worshipped him.
LADY WINDERMERE.  But you?
It was then that I heard the story, and as the rambling voice scraped
JACK.
in the House of Commons, with whom she was conversing in that intensely
fall, he soon made clear; and again I strove to think of some way in
AN IDEAL HUSBAND
athless Chinamen had told him, were still to be found as Cyclopean
horse. He hailed it and in a low voice gave the driver an address.
LADY BASILDON.  Really?
PHIPPS.  I will speak to the florist, my lord.  She has had a loss in her
upland lot, but did nothing with the land around the house. He knew it
really significant digest. Average people in society and business--New
Legrasse had one point in advance of Professor Webb, for several among
superstitious rustics will say and believe anything.
nervously the clammy vapour which had brushed by him in that frightful
men smile at each other_.]
bouche est comme une branche de corail que des pêcheurs ont trouvée dans
seemed to supply new and terrible clues to the nature, methods, and
“I don’t think I like boys,” answered the Swallow.  “Last summer, when I
in number, had all vanished one night and were never heard of again.
in its way, a real work of art, life having its elaborate masterpieces,
other Eskimos knew little, and which they mentioned only with shudders,
“You will never be in the best society unless you can stand on your
flagging quest; and I carefully tore it out for immediate action. It
HÉRODE [_à Hérodias_] Voilà comme vous l’avez élevée, votre fille.
And so he would now study perfumes and the secrets of their
of refuge for Man, denying him as the bird cried to the dawn; his own
both of these things just and right to me.  And exactly as in Art one is
Armitage saw that the time for positive action had come, and spoke
nt in my art.... Of course,
“If it is not, what have I to do with it?”
beautiful, and he is not often wrong about things of that kind. Your
JACK.
moral tone, high principles.  [_To_ LORD GORING.]  Everything that you
Park every afternoon and all—well, all—since she has known poor dear
that if ever I lie in the cool grass at night-time it will be to write
ended--or rather, reversed--there.
contrary, I am going to render him a great service.
toothless gums together; and, raising his withered hands high above his
But was it all irretrievable? Was there no hope for him?
there was a good deal to be said for his prejudices.
costume ball as Anne de Joyeuse, Admiral of France, in a dress covered
mon ennemi.  C’est celui-là qui sera mangé des vers.  Ce n’est pas moi.
serious about meals. It is so shallow of them.
bottom of the pail. Truly, it was not large, but perhaps they had taken
to be heard. The shunning of his house by neighbours told on him, of
wondered whether Dorian Gray was passing through a similar experience.
There is no error more common than that of thinking that those who are
the level country beyond till it rejoins the Aylesbury pike. Afterward
cloth, and plate stand. Cecily is about to retort.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Well, I wish you’d show it in a more marked way!  [_They
Then he began to feel a curious tingling sensation all over him.
Jack, you are at the muffins again! I wish you wouldn’t. There are only
Those Old Ones were gone now, inside the earth and under the sea; but
one whose growth is arrested. If you want to mar a nature, you have
you to be baptized. I will not hear of such excesses. Lord Bracknell
pecially from Wales to attend the funeral, and sat in the first
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What!  Had I fallen so low in your eyes that you
[_Goes off grumbling into the smoking-room_.  PHIPPS _enters_.]
now fast fading into a mixed low growling and moaning, proceeded
assistance whatever in this matter. One of them, a heavy tome with
What nonsense! I haven’t got a brother.
bow.
LORD AUGUSTUS.  A very clever woman.  Knows perfectly well what a demmed
ALGERNON.
with his intonation or with the internal organs that produced the
JACK.
crew of the _Emma_ landed on an unknown island and left six men dead;
good-looking and that I could paint. Even now I cannot help feeling
at school each day; but they could not help being frightened by the
former experience. The Gardners took to watching at night--watching in
, to see so perfect a reconciliation? I think
Censor.  The play was first performed by the THÉÂTRE DE L’ŒUVRE, Paris,
Grace told me to wait for an answer,” he murmured.
subsidence into lethargy. His temperature, oddly enough, was not
consequences and checked himself. There was too much responsibility
ket, “I was saying—What was I saying?”
Thin-lipped wisdom spoke at her from the worn chair, hinted at
show before him. Things that he had dimly dreamed of were suddenly made
be away a month. I should think you could easily spare it for that
“I must speak, and you must listen. You shall listen. When you met Lady
[Enter Merriman with a card on a salver.]
like mud.  Give me rainy weather and a ditch, and I am quite happy.  Do
He had not entered the place for more than four years—not, indeed,
THE COLOUR OUT OF SPACE
l’a porté sur l’ivoire de ses
It hasn't been fed since the second of August, when Wilbur came here to
wider'n a barn is matted daown, an' all the stun walls tumbled every
in him he gives to this wretched woman, whom he has thrust into your
in gold pieces of extremely ancient date. The Whateleys had received
could only lie awake in the dark and think whilst uncounted millions
“Especially when one has been wounded by it,” answered Lord Henry.
coherent account could ever be gained. What the police did extract
des topazes jaunes comme les yeux des tigres, et des topazes roses comme
and his honesty. I took leave of him amicably, and wish him all the
to hear the names quite clearly, so as to make no mistake.  You
beams of a sunlight once more brilliant and untainted. They were grave
flooded for the new reservoir. Then the dark woods will be cut down and
done about the lurking terrors of the upper Miskatonic valley, and
think that should satisfy you, Lady Bracknell.
lighter, and there were signs that the storm had worn itself away. When
hills with him on May Eve and Hallowmass; and in 1926 the poor creature
and some of the dreamers confessed acute fear of the gigantic nameless
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Dear girl!  She is so fond of photographs of
he air like blossoms in the wind_.
you as Paris in dainty armour, and as Adonis with huntsman’s cloak and
hands and icy heart.  I bring him nothing.  I must go back—no; I can’t go
ALGERNON.
in winter when we have no flowers to look at, and always here in summer
and earth tremors of March 1st.
elements of weakness, or worse than weakness.
o say that behind sorrow
strange colours, and through the stony soil of the yard and adjacent
not being talked about. A portrait like this would set you far above
seemed to show the effects of sound calculation. It had really begun
LORD CAVERSHAM.  What should it say, sir?  Everything complimentary, of
are.  In their eyes prison is a tragedy in a man's life, a misfortune, a
e would not think about what had happened until
only verbs and pronouns. Things moved and changed and fluttered, and
“Ah, my dear Basil, that is exactly why I can feel it. Those who are
existing."
“I like men who have a future and women who have a past,” he answered.
should like to write a novel certainly, a novel that would be as lovely
the body, as every cell of the brain, seems to be instinct with fearful
lovely to look at—one of the loveliest creatures, Lord Henry thought,
pockets.
here ... one o' them professors said so...."
horror if Dorian Gray entered the room.
soon woke out of a tangle of nightmares almost as hideous as the truths
whereby the spheres meet. Man rules now where They ruled once; They
MRS. CHEVELEY.  You must make it possible.  You are going to make it
with fraud!  You built up your career on dishonour!  Oh, tell me it is
Then I was christened! That is settled. Now, what name was I given? Let
texts with the aim of discovering a certain passage which would have
their monstrous stone city again to the sun and air.
it is elsewhere. Horses--the few that are left in this motor age--grow
me les figues vertes tombent d’un figuier, et
hand.]
bargaining with the cabman. The moment was lost in vulgar details. It
purpose, how interesting he would be! I should like to know some one
the ripped earth and charred grass near the archaic well-sweep in his
There is a fatality about all physical and intellectual distinction,
the time of Queen Elizabeth, and consequently they all fall asleep
a distant homestead, a cock crew. He laughed a long, low, bitter laugh,
corners, where they lay shuddering.
“Threads snap. You would lose your way in the labyrinth.”
tore and reverberated through those
at the terrible reality.
I heard it to-night by chance. Make your peace with God, for to-night
extremely practical, and whenever they objected to anything they called
Lady Stutfield
Y [_With an impertinent smile_.]  Really?
loungers at Osborn's general store. There seemed to be a change in the
because it suggests something Wilcox had told me of his awful dreams.
MERRIMAN.
LORD WINDERMERE.  Margaret, you couldn’t do such a thing.
earnest manner which is the one unpardonable error, as he remarked once
the bar.
MRS. MARCHMONT.  How very trivial of him!
LANE.
gravity of demeanour is especially to be commended in one so
R'lyeh under the waters, should rise and bring the earth again beneath
was born. Seth he's gone aout naow to look at 'em, though I'll vaow he
in the chair. If I am late he is sure to be furious, and I couldn’t
his one-sided way, and was quietly known by correspondence to many
uence is that he has nothing left for life but his
observe where they met, and where they separated, at what point they
ruin that time brought on beautiful and wonderful things. He, at any
much to be beautiful. We
Yes. But why does your aunt call you her uncle? ‘From little Cecily,
to_ LADY AGATHA.]
LORD GORING.  Certainly.
have to teach myself is not to be ashamed of it.  I must accept it as a
voices. Yet, after some time, he wearied of them, and would sit in his
of ruthlessness brought against his party during the proceedings of the
out, I suppose? So am I. Perhaps I shall see you at Lady Thornbury’s.”
Miss Fairfax.
[Still more indignant.] Mr. Worthing, there is some error. [Pointing to
"_Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn._"
LADY BASILDON.  You look quite English, Vicomte, quite English.
than your picture”; and the little Princess blushed.
a learned friend of Paterson,
you. This is merely the beginning.”
Why on earth don’t you go up and change? It is perfectly childish to be
time. No doubt you have many other calls of a similar character to make
t can be the fault of the Paragon Detergent," said Washington,
afternoon several persons drove past to see the abnormal growth, and
e acid solvents
by acid in the woods and fields? It lay largely to the north of the
DE PROFUNDIS
mood I had had them placed there. The bag is undoubtedly mine. I am
influence was so insidious. Why has he never been able to move away?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Wonderful man, wasn’t he?
SALOMÉ.  Vous ferez cela pour moi, Narraboth, et demain quand je passerai
o doubt you noticed.  But there are many tragedies in her
LORD GORING.  Miss Mabel, I am going to make a rather strange request to
SECOND SOLDAT.  Mais non.  Le tétrarque lui a envoyé la bague.
remember a prayer. Isn’t there a verse somewhere, ‘Though your sins be
cted me in the vestry, dear Canon. I have been
FIRST ACT
suspected the compiler of having asked leading questions, or of having
polite to make any personal remarks out loud.
festin.
fly up to the Prince’s shoulder once more.  “Good-bye, dear Prince!” he
"_Eh-ya-ya-ya-yahaah ... e'yaya-yayaaaa ... ngh'aaaa ... ngh'aaaa_ ...
LORD DARLINGTON.  Have something to drink, you fellows.  Cecil, you’ll
But while Christ did not say to men, 'Live for others,' he pointed out
away. Then the stronger-minded folk all left the region, and only the
couronne qui me fait mal, ma couronne de roses.  On dirait que ces fleurs
answered my summons, and I was stung with disappointment when she told
Windermere down to your club at once, and keep him there as long as
christened already?
Cambridge; anxious for the book, yet almost equally anxious to get
_She remains quite impassive_.  _He leaves the room_.]
not any colour of our earth or heavens. And because Ammi recognized
the great events of the world take place in the brain. It is in the
noises. Wilbur was four and a half then, and looked like a lad of
“Sometimes, indeed, the neighbours thought it strange that the rich
And, by the way, you must pay me a good deal of attention this evening.
I have no joy of this contract to-night:
degrees the forms and colours of things are restored to them, and we
My uncle blamed his old age, Wilcox afterward said, for his slowness
JACK.
on what one shouldn’t read.
her face in her hands_.]
MRS. MARCHMONT
out, there would be little left to fight for.  Well, as soon as I hear
his recovery, and my uncle kept no record of his night-thoughts after a
o' the glen--opposite side ter this--an' smelt the same awful
One afternoon, a month later, Dorian Gray was reclining in a luxurious
GWENDOLEN.
Curzon Street, your mad infatuation, the monstrous sums of money you
to use the tainted supply, drinking it as listlessly and mechanically
Agenouillez-vous au bord de la mer, et appelez-le par son nom.
truly an awful moment; with terror in that ancient and accursed house
beauty. There was still some gold in the thinning hair and some scarlet
rose the wakening wonder of his face.
"glorious fulfilment" which never arrives, whilst items from India
On November 1st, 1907, there had come to New Orleans police a frantic
for the voice of the lover, Philistinism being simply that side of man's
“I am so glad I have found you, Dorian,” he said gravely. “I called
bending and matting visible along the broad swath marking the monster's
sont tout à fait comme des papillons blancs.
real degradation of his life, and in front of it had draped the
d
That night there was a thunderstorm, and when the professors went out
PLACE: _London_.
of some fiendish and unclean species of suction. With an associative
towards him begins.
sadness with me: to teach them that melancholy is
virtues are not real to him. His sins, if there are such things as
LORD GORING.  [_After a long pause_.]  Nobody is incapable of doing a
besides.  I believe I am to have enough to live on for about eighteen
life that was to make his soul would mar his body. He would become
unguided into black arcades of horror that none of them had ever trod
price. Under these circumstances, Lord Canterville, I feel sure that you
to the Frye farmyard, monstrous prints covered the bare patches of
theology.
much native superstition.
down for family prayers, according to the simple rites of the Free
him he admitted that Nahum had feared something down there--so much so
qu’elle cherchait.  Ah! pourquoi ne l’ai-je pas caché de la lune?  Si je
were anywhere to be seen except in the green grass and leafage; but
there was something in his look that had made her feel afraid.
Pray do! I think that whenever one has anything unpleasant to say, one
up in it. I see by _The Standard_ that she was seventeen. I should have
leeringly in those crazily elusive angles of carven rock where a second
belle, Salomé, s’il te plaisait de demander la moitié de mon royaume.
in the treasure-house of my heart.  I keep it there as a secret debt that
with a complement o
[_Goes out with the_ VICOMTE DE NANJAC.  LORD CAVERSHAM _comes up to his
little of it; in the troubled undertone of doubt and distress that haunts
it. Oh, don’t leave me, don’t leave me.” A fit of passionate sobbing
LORD WINDERMERE.  Yes.  [_Pause_.
h'yuh ... h'yuh ... HELP! HELP! ... _ff--ff--ff_--FATHER! FATHER!
voice had begun to break. Earl Sawyer went out to the Whateley place
he found. There could have been nothing from outside, for the small
If ever I write again, in the sense of producing artistic work, there are
all agreed that plants of that kind ought never to sprout in a healthy
made faces at him, he decided to keep her locked in the attic. By July
well as the little white walled-in house at Algiers where they had more
ntensity of the dreams
_presence_.]
very close to it when he spoke of the city; for instead of describing
however, gone a couple of miles, when he heard somebody galloping after
by purely professional considerations.
been about the feeding of the poor and the necessity for model
JACK.
is mentioned a dread of something abnormal.
at the Widener Library. Those efforts had been in vain, since Armitage
afford some probable insight into our ante-mundane condition, and
LORD GORING.  [_Smiling_.]  And those are the views of the two ladies who
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN         _Mr. Lewis Waller_.
“You spoil my life as an artist by refusing, Dorian. No man comes
ALGERNON.
LE CAPPADOCIEN [_montrant la citerne_] Quelle étrange prison!
CECILY.
man on the question of dress is always ridiculous, is he not?
'Who never ate his bread in sorrow,
The men shuffled about a moment, and then Earl Sawyer spoke softly,
MABEL CHILTERN.  Oh! Lord Goring is president.
y amid the pathless deserts of Arabia, where
LADY BRACKNELL.
and from that time forward kept close watch of the case; calling
sted a more indescribable horde of human abnormality than any but a
for one’s own faults—ah!—there is the sting of life.  It was twenty years
where the Hadjis sit counting their amber beads and the turbaned
Conjecture was vain; so after a futile attempt to find additional
While in reading the Gospels--particularly that of St.
always immensely over-educated.
comparison of details, and a moment of really awed silence when both
secrets will lie safe forever under watery fathoms.
Miss Prism. I am sure you certainly would. You know German, and
wings; but it was the _general outline_ of the whole which made it most
carefully thought-out buttonhole is much
after all horizontal--and the men wondered how any door in the universe
sont de gens très grossiers.  Enfin, ce sont des gens très ridicules.
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Qui est-ce?
Rome perd Rome.  Il ne viendra pas.  Mais, enfin, c’est le maître, César.
only verbs and pronouns. Things moved and changed and fluttered, and
smart people go by.”
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Never go anywhere now.  Sick of London Society.
way, and his unkempt clothing and white beard made him seem very worn
“It is applicable to you,” answered the Linnet; and he flew down, and
LORD GORING.  Now?
wits, Lord Darlington, just explain to me what you really mean.
men I can always manage.  How do you do, Lord Augustus?  You have quite
My dear Mr. Worthing, as Miss Cardew states positively that she cannot
kin make it multiply an' work.... Only them, the old uns as wants to
“Ah! then, you never really love, Mr. Gray,” answered the duchess with
LORD GORING.  [_Airily_.]  Oh, I forget.  At least, it makes no matter.
LORD GORING.  I am charmed to hear it.  It is a reformation.
more to me than a model or a sitter. I won’t tell you that I am
speak guardedly of serious native unrest toward the end of March.
nine large-paper copies of the first edition, and had them bound in
you must not think too much about it.”
LORD DARLINGTON.  My dear Lady Windermere!
"An' he says, says he, Mis' Corey, as haow he sot to look fer Seth's
still deeper note, one of greater unity of passion, and directness of
of them had dreamed very bizarre things, the intensity of the dreams
counterpane with palsy-twitching fingers. As for the twins, he was quite
s’approche_.  _Hérodias prend de la main du tétrarque la bague de la mort
for themselves with rising pangs of horror the drear Frye ruins with
ridicule.
Out of that dream came rescue--the _Vigilant_, the vice-admiralty
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  No; I walked from the club.
strange things; and the doctor shuddered now and then as he spoke of
sometimes with only one or two, and sometimes with only a lone chimney
ver you are, Mr. Hopper.  You have a
tale. It appears that on March 1st, 1925, a thin, dark young man of
drawing-room_, _when_ MRS. CHEVELEY _comes out_, _looking radiant and
he’ll have something to amuse him, and where you can watch him all day
that I have found comfort of any kind.  Now I am advised by others to try
can make them happy.”
pompous humility, waving his fat jewelled hands and talking at the top
there are no stars and the moon is in travail. Mysticism, with its
remains. I shall be glad to see the water come. Meanwhile I hope
People say the colour of the neighboring herbage is not quite right
rather come down. I must not be alone.”
Salomé, vous qui êtes la plus belle de toutes les filles de Judée?
ce qui doit arriver?  Personne ne le sait.  Aussi, il m’insulte toujours.
er time chosen men had talked with the entombed Old Ones in
of the upper orders. The masses feel that drunkenness, stupidity, and
over material, common interests: that to be unpractical was to be a great
that?
Antinous was to late Greek sculpture, and the face of Dorian Gray will
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Believe me, Mrs. Cheveley, it is a swindle.  Let us
puzzled as did this fraction. It is well that no explanation shall ever
morning sky, a particular perfume that you had once loved and that
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_Drawing herself up_.]  Oh, dear no!  They are as happy
MERRIMAN.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Except the people!
“He is a very lucky fellow.”
detective silently called attention to something terrible in the very
[_Le prophète sort de la citerne_.  _Salomé le regarde et recule_.]
Lord Henry looked at him.
“Never marry at all, Dorian.
sure you are far too clever to have done that.
charmingly!
Dieu.  Eh bien, tu l’as vu, ton Dieu, Iokanaan, mais moi, moi . . . tu ne
travelled roads around Arkham.
meant to do anything then and there. It was getting toward sunset, and
When our eyes met, I felt that I was growing pale. A curious sensation
ground floor, while odd cries and footsteps resounded in the boarded-up
e la
bloated corpulence, and squatted evilly on a rectangular block or
everything that he did, and tried to reproduce the accidental charm of
a reputation for being civilized. Well, after I had been in the room
she had ceased to speak and crawled on all fours, and before that month
almost by chance, in wresting a secret from his friend! How much that
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Not Mrs. Cheveley!  Who was it then?
shoulder. "Dun't go out thar," he whispered. "They's more to this nor
thought you knew more about people’s characters. Your friend Lord Henry
crowded out all other images at the time. It would be trite and not
At length the squatter settlement, a miserable huddle of huts, hove in
[_Un grand bras noir_, _le bras du bourreau_, _sort de la citerne
quelqu’un cherchait à me tuer, je crierais, je me débattrais, je ne
forgiven.
less than they thought.
intellect.”
to overlook my nephew’s conduct to you.
gasp. The others looked at him, and then quickly followed his own
men clustered round the window Ammi gave a violent start. For this
and listened.  All night long she sang, and the thorn went deeper and
BERWICK.  Oh, men don’t matter.  With women it is different.
beauty that had ruined him, his beauty and the youth that he had prayed
handsome settlement, Windermere, won’t you?
It was then that he began that rambling tale which sudd
proving itself absolutely non-volatile at any producible temperature,
You'll never know what the world has escaped. Now we've only this one
medical experts to investigate; conducting a survey which New England
Pontus and were figured with “lions, panthers, bears, dogs, forests,
addressing the House, and consequently whenever he discusses the state of
were freely
1
and down the exposed corner-posts, coruscated about the shelf and
*       *       *       *       *
watch. “I have heaps of time,” he answered. “The train doesn’t go till
find you plunged in remorse and tearing that nice curly hair of yours.”
GWENDOLEN.
oks perfectly furious, and goes to the door.] For
is there, it must be tethered to something or else it would quickly
wait in the drawing-room.  [_Goes to the door of the drawing-room and
_Thirteenth Edition_ (1_s._ _net_) _1916_, _Fourteenth and
fiction, of course. But then the only things that one can use in
it must be admitted that she has some beautiful notes in her voice.
SCENE
and I know that panic would have broken loose had they been able to
thing was absurd. It would serve as a tale to tell Basil some day. It
Canterville Chase, and on the day after their arrival they walked over
authorities in the country and met with no more than the Greenland tale
him to some absurd meeting at Willis’s Rooms, where he is going to be
beaux paons blancs, qui se promènent dans le jardin entre les myrtes et
all. He was weak, and lying in a couch in the low-ceiled kitchen,
“She has form,” he said to himself, as he walked away through the
that had sought to maim and mar the perfection of its calm. With subtle
trembling in laughter on her lips.
court of inquiry.
drink and lie down and pray, or kneel at least for prayer, according to
food--but simply in order that nothing should be wasted of what is given
by purely professional considerations. The statuette, idol, fetish,
still that my life had been full of perverse pleasures, and that un
uncommunicative groups came and went where the fiendish thing had
LE PREMIER JUIF.  C’est vrai cela.  Dieu est terrible.  Il brise les
the girl herself.
afraid there might be something in it that I wouldn’t like. You cut
be the same strange ailment which had killed the livestock. He also
vines, of the grass in the orchard made white with broken blossoms or
striations resembled nothing familiar to geology or mineralogy. The
unplaceable colour left the well, it seemed to flow directly into the
were so wounded that he would not appear. Mr.
cousin. “You had better take care. He is very fascinating.”
The six men drove out in a democrat-wagon, following Ammi's buggy, and
have a grandfather, and much more than that to have a family ghost."
LORD WINDERMERE.  None.
resides?
It was then that he began that rambling tale which sudd
for his new grandson--a room which several callers saw, though no one
door of his library, he opened the secret press into which he had
“I stayed when you asked me,” was Lord Henry’s answer.
heir fashionable manner. They are quite obvious. But an
months went by, one flower taking another flower’s place, so that there
Mrs. Vane winced and put her thin, bismuth-whitened hands on her
won’t have anything to do with their fathers, and so many fathers who
inquiries at his quarters revealed that he had been stricken with an
alike by Eskimo diabolists and mongrel Louisianans? Professor Angell's
only fancy could transmute into sound, but which he attempted to render
[Picture: Hans and the Miller]
HÉRODIAS.  Je vous ai dit de ne pas la regarder.
pretending to be wicked and being really good all the time. That would
and whispered on I shivered again and again despite the summer day.
But it is when he deals with a sinner that Christ is most romantic, in
the rest were committed to various institutions. All denied a part
LADY BRACKNELL.
awed by the cosmic majesty of this dripping Babylon of elder demons,
It was here that the Whateleys used to build their hellish fires and
as a
white satin and pink silk damask, decorated with tulips and dolphins
he oddly said, was _all wrong_--and hear
banks were bent and
If you don’t take care, your friend Bunbury will get you into a serious
ely fainted. That was
evening dress, with a knife in his heart. He was withered, wrinkled,
the police are for.
of mankind's.
since it would be unnecessary to know the origin of the symbols if,
Groaning, Screeching, and Hissing, such as no Things of this Earth
being quite different.  As for keeping myself dry, there is evidently no
Gertrude.  You have married a pattern husband.  I wish I could say as
if it is any disappointment to you, but I am afraid I have the prior
pleasure.  [_Rises_, _and speaks to_ LORD WINDERMERE, _laughing_.]  What
garden seemed to be telling the flowers about her.
is a little thing I would like you to do for me.  I want a photograph of
and stupidly forgot to tell the butler anything about it as I was
came mainly from an immensely aged mestizo named Castro, who claimed
nowadays.  Indeed, as a rule, everybody turns out to be somebody else.
sense he jovially termed it—was shown to be the proper bulwark for
northwest. The men from Arkham were undecided what to do. Seeking
SALOMÉ.  Je baiserai ta bouche, Iokanaan, je baiserai ta bouche.
rose.
the medical examiner, and the veterinary who had treated the diseased
shrivelled or compressed, and atrocious collapses or disintegrations
palm-leaf fans--twict or three times as big as any they is--hed of ben
and Deaths at Sea. Rescued Seaman Refuses Particulars of Strange
and it was still alive after a fashion.
as Frazer's _Golden Bough_ and Miss Murray's _Witch-Cult in Western
no identifying features whatsoever; and at the end of the tests the
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Princesse!  Princesse!  Princesse!
of flesh and blood. They had shape--for did not this star-fashioned
dandies.
ALGERNON.
JACK.
dead.”
the college had found that stone to be, several farmers spoke about the
no right to do such a thing!
out of England? Days would elapse before he could come back. Perhaps he
orchid, for my button-hole. It was a marvellous spotted thing, as
felt rather guilty when I came to see your dear aunt, for I take no
long avenue as hard as he could go. The trees seemed to sweep past him
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Turning round on her_.]  Therefore I have a right to
of girl I like!  Well, really, Windermere, if I am to be the Duchess’s
with_ LORD WINDERMERE.]  Good evening, Arthur.  Why don’t you ask me how
inct for which he could not account,
her, but she has personality also; and you have often told me that it
“Where else should I be?” he answered, listlessly. “None of the chaps
Thank you, Aunt Augusta.
thing a fan, isn’t it? . . . I want a friend to-night, Lord Darlington: I
noises. Wilbur was four and a half then, and looked like a lad of
but the Ghost glided on more swiftly, and Virginia did not listen. When
me.’
her to your wife?  No use beating about the confounded bush.  Would you
CHAPTER VII.
ntly
blood-stain by means of Pinkerton's Paragon Detergent. Having reduced
and orgiastic license here whipped themselves to demoniac heights by
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Testily_.]  That is a matter for me, sir.  You would
he found in the cabin of the yacht, in a small carved shrine of
mattings of infinite years of decay.
dear, but she has a great many disreputable men friends—my own brother
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Because he leads such an idle life.
ad gone. Five eldritch acres of
leaned back in his chair. “My dear Dorian, you have the most curiously
for you.  You are different.  All your life you have stood apart from
Hallward turned pale and caught his hand. “Dorian! Dorian!” he cried,
that purpose moved his entire set of files and boxes to my quarters in
ago.
sword-hilt.
I have not been able to see the people, which was worse. The Grosvenor
be said to conduce very much to either one’s health or one’s happiness,
bouche.
mouth, the memory of that little, lovely, silent act of love has unsealed
profession we are accustomed to receive a great deal of most gratifying
comet's tail, and of hysterical plunges from the pit to the moon and
up this mornin', but he's got to go over to Whateley's an' see what's
bewilderment not quite crystallized into fresh terror. Only old Zebulon
sky.]
and shouted of what he had found. The rest followed him, and looked
perspiration there. He felt that he was on the brink of a horrible
LORD GORING.  Ah! the truth is a thing I get rid of as soon as possible!
name could fit such thing, or any other thing fit such a name. It
tattered lace handkerchief from the window, as her son drove away. She
Page
brain had sickened and grown strange, could only be soothed by Saracen
understand my friendship for the Prince.”
the good conduct prize!
violent kisses, and the twins executed a wild war-dance round the group.
white lily. Her hands seemed to be made of cool ivory.
unheeded on his ear. He collected together from all parts of the world
the purity and refinement of that sad face that seemed to enrage him.
he finally chose, Dr. Armitage looked involuntarily over his shoulder
or wears very smart bonnets that some other woman’s husband has to pay
Legrasse, deeply impressed and not a little bewildered, had inquired
I have heard you describe as the most dishonest and fraudulent scheme
What a very stupid thing to do!’
the underbrush of Sentinel Hill itself. It was the piping of unnumbered
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  It is nothing, dear, nothing.
half-comatose state; but he was conscious enough to warn her off with
village.
suspected it.
She shook her head. “I believe in the race,” she cried.
terribly upset. And it seems that you asked him not to shoot the hare.
les grands cyprès.  Leurs becs sont dorés, et les grains qu’ils mangent
members. No book had ever really hinted of it, though the deathless
got his blood upon my hands.”
quivering every morning. They had, it developed, nearly lost the spirit
LORD AUGUSTUS LORTON        _Mr. H. H. Vincent_.
because it had a greater share of the _outsideness_ in it. You needn't
teaching them the secret of some new joy.
night long he watches the stars, and when the morning star shines he
HÉRODE.  Ah! c’est magnifique, c’est magnifique!  Vous voyez qu’elle a
in the world, and that you can treat me as you choose.  You are wrong, I
NAAMAN, le bourreau
That is because I am hungry.
shooting-coat, smoking a cheroot and grumbling over _The Times_. “Well,
Indeed I am not sure that I quite know what Pessimism really means.  All
of the dusty, curving road. The trees of the frequent forest belts
GWENDOLEN.
defeats. Every month as it wanes brings you nearer to something
PARKER.  Mrs. Cowper-Cowper.  Lady Stutfield.  Sir James Royston.  Mr.
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.
und a curious pleasure in
of sorts.”
earth's supreme terror--the nightmare corpse-city of R'lyeh, that
SALOMÉ.  Donnez-moi la tête d’Iokanaan.
shall believe you. Deny them, Dorian, deny them! Can’t you see what I
JACK.
oolish, Jim, utterly foolish; a bad-tempered boy, that
never remembered; and her husband, a red-cheeked,
It was quite dark inside, for the window was small and half-obscured
But before he had opened his wings, a third drop fell, and he looked up,
tly decadent, having
and the bruised, matted vegetation of the fields and road-sides.
“Mr. Isaacs has advanced us fifty pounds to pay off our debts and to
advice.”
surely overtake the _Alert_ until steam was fully up, he resolved
weapons, I will fight her with her weapons.  It is only fair, and she
and in the yard outside the no less frightened herd were pawing and
twins. The final blow he received occurred on the 19th of September. He
LE PREMIER SOLDAT.  Il a l’air sombre, le tétrarque.  N’est-ce pas qu’il
everything.  Egad! she explains you.  She has got any amount of
explanation of the next.  And if you are ever in trouble, Lady Chiltern,
woods that no axe has ever cut.
any accountable being to eternal torment. Anyone but a stolid farmer
Christ's own renaissance, which has produced the Cathedral at Chartres,
question were those descriptive of the dreams of various persons
r enviously.
by her—dominated by her.  If a woman wants to hold a man, she has merely
If they can catch the fleeing soul when it leaves the body, they
Where is that place in the country, by the way?
bezoar, that was found in the heart of the Arabian deer, was a charm
on the drama that it would be impossible to bear the spectacle of one
CHASUBLE.
years younger than her own daughter, she is perfectly satisfied. As for
women do—pitiless in her perfection—cold and stern and without mercy.
do it myself,” said the young man, and he tore
CECILY.
stone.
I fear there can be no possible doubt about the matter. This afternoon
est comme un narcisse agité du vent . . . Elle ressemble à une fleur
for most of us that it is not.
village.
purification, and I want to go back to them and live in their presence.
It suits you perfectly. It is a divine name. It has a music of its own.
LE PAGE D’HÉRODIAS.  Pourquoi lui parler?  Pourquoi la regarder? . . .
Cthulhu still lives, too, I suppose, again in that chasm of stone
describe. In her raving there was not a single specific noun, but
human blasphemy could ever have called him for a moment on the hills."
“I don’t believe a word of it.”
studying, or the wired flower that we had worn at the ball, or the
myself, Harry,” he murmured with something of a sigh of relief.
life.  Told me she entirely disapproved of people marrying more than
“Mr. Dorian Gray is in the studio, sir,” said the butler, coming into
on all her wanderings. At home he would pore diligently over the queer
another’s errors on one’s shoulders. Each man lived his own life and
“I don’t feel up to it,” said Dorian listlessly. “But I am awfully
But the Tree shook its head.
LADY CHILTERN.  It was your own wife.  Robert, yesterday afternoon Lord
ended--or rather, reversed--there.
nothing to me compared with her.”
o sorry!  You’ll take a cigar, won’t
LORD GORING.  [_With great deliberation_.]  A thoroughly shallow creed.
the night. The professors tried it with a geologist's hammer and found
went under some very black clouds as they crossed the rustic bridge
and in a singularly curious irregular rhythm quite unlike that of the
*       *       *       *       *
by some allied and bodiless line of linkage with sub-terrene horrors
LORD GORING.  This one, father.  It is the chair I use myself, when I
sight.  As for domesticity, it ages one rapidly, and
the curtain aside, a hideous laugh broke from the painted lips of the
so, and went into his bedroom.
magic, the shelves of strange books, the sealed second story of the
a sleeping memory and won the fevered interest of my uncle. There had
this. He had the key, and no one else could enter it. Beneath its
_The_ Dunwich Horror
“Oh, your theories about life, your theories about love, your theories
over to the glass and glanced into it. He could see the reflection of
sky.]
is mentioned a dread of something abnormal.
buries his face in his hands_.]
grotesque by terror, twisted and distorted as a living thing by pain,
and there is nothing to keep me straight. She would have done that for
Examining one day the reserve specimens roughly set on the storage
LADY BRACKNELL.
loneliness of genius, when suddenly two little boys in white smocks came
“They found safety in the desert.
ALGERNON.
They mean so little.  It is a commercial transaction.  That is all.
way back from Clark's Corners.
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Hesitates for a moment_.]  Show him up—and I’m at
antique cut, were soiled and ragged, and from his wrists and ankles hung
longer shining out; it was pouring out; and as the shapeless stream of
ength to get home, but was so clearly in
ALGERNON.
make his way quietly to Washington Otis's room, gibber at him from the
Do you mean to say you have had my cigarette case all this time? I wish
TIGELLIN.  Il y en a qui se tuent, Seigneur.  Ce sont les Stoïciens.  Ce
HÉRODE.  Taisez-vous.  Vous criez toujours.  Vous criez comme une bête de
“He is a gentleman,” said the lad sullenly.
in gold pieces of extremely ancient date. The Whateleys had received
from that doomed and accursed farm a gleamingly eruptive cataclysm of
Well, at any rate, that is better than being always over-dressed as you
same ideas. No; I think our ideas are quite different. But he has been
child is but six months old.  [_Sits in chair R. of L. table_.]
touching the water with his wings, and making silver ripples.  This was
He has got as far as he can, and that is not far, is it?  With regard to
his mongrel prisoners had repeated to him what older celebrants had
t has not marred you. You are
But before many questions were asked, it became manifest that something
while still others try to explain the Devil's Hop Yard--a bleak,
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_R.C._]  Oh, don’t say that, Lady Windermere.  I
round the garden as fast as he could go.  He was dressed in grey, and his
JACK.
The late Mr.
one, and after some fumbling Ammi threw open the low white door.
poor Johansen went, so I shall go. I know too much, and the cult still
were there,” they said to each other.
one who is in prison as of one who is 'in trouble' simply.  It is the
MISS PRISM.
everybody in the room, the most astounding details. I simply fled. I
“Mother, I have something to ask you,” he said.
place his white hands beside the coarse bloated hands of the picture,
saw how things stood, and tried to answer lightly.
obey what his father told him; and Ammi thought that his fate was very
“Is that the end of the story?” asked the Water-rat.
But even all this was not so bad as the blasted heath. I knew it the
alkaline phosphates and carbonates.
beer-barrel. Mercutio was almost as bad.
symbolic figure, but his relations were to the passion of his age and its
influence on or off this three-dimensioned earth--was Wilbur Whateley's
whimpered, kept from screaming by some obscure, vestigial instinct
well able to take care of herself.
with attacks on the manuscript itself, and in time became convinced
old chimney and cellar on my right, and the yawning black maw of an
ears tingled to impulses which were not wholly sounds. Something
things.
bright beady eyes and stiff grey whiskers and his tail was like a long
voir will soon be built now, and all those elder
LORD GORING.  Quite so.  That is why you pretended to love me.
will go to him!  [_Puts on cloak and goes to the door_, _then turns
into Dunwich Village and discoursed incoherently to the group of
Toward the middle of the next night he drowsed off in his chair, but
continued to be reported from year to year, and still form a puzzle to
ALGERNON.
“Forgive me, sir,” muttered James Vane. “I was deceived. A chance word
gentleman covered all over with orders and ribbons, and hissing into my
one looks up.]
worth painting, though many of them would be the better for a little
you before I left. I thought it was you, or rather your fur coat, as
portrait, shuddering as he glanced at it. “How horrible!” he murmured
blows were struck, shots were fired, and escapes were made; but in
Armitage saw that the time for positive action had come, and spoke
he
Well, you’ve no right whatsoever to Bunbury here.
alive ... suckin' the life out of
was only a repetition of the barricading of the night before, and a
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Holding her hand_.]  Margaret, I thought Mrs. Erlynne
chatter of the clubs—could not believe anything to his dishonour when
have been very pleasant.
a great architect went mad, and poor Wilcox raved with fever in that
carriage along with little Virginia.
which was the nearest to him geographically. Almost eight feet tall,
ALGERNON.
capered about.
“Yes.”
r persons whose origin was a Terminus. [Jack looks perfectly
made pets of the graceful felines.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Lord Augustus!  Then it is I who am lost!  [_Hesitates for
speak guardedly of serious native unrest toward the end of
at every woman here sneers at me as she dances by with my husband.
children had disappeared since the malevolent tom-tom had begun its
brocade, and yellow silk damask and cloth of gold, figured with
lying on the hall table.
mountain to see what he might. Through the lenses were discernible
both arms, and that kind of thing.”
But your career will have to be entirely domestic.
h'yuh ... h'yuh ... HELP! HELP! ... _ff--ff--ff_--FATHER! FATHER!
blasted heath. I hurried back before sunset to my hotel, unwilling to
to sleep in. It was too much like a landscape of Salvator Rosa; too
luxury and gorgeous splendour of his mode of life,
Isaiah had really no more to do with his coming than the song of the
seen again.
will fly up to the Second Cataract.  The river-horse couches there among
rent of vapour had brushed past him--and then poor Nahum had been
de ses péchés est arrivé aux oreilles de Dieu.
"Gawd almighty, the grass an' bushes is a-movin'! It's a-goin'
and in the absence of his host stammered out a desperate tale once
petticoats, every colour, every shape, every material.  In fact, before
forefinger began to point shakily and impressively.
tree.”  The Giant loved him the best because he had kissed him.
street leading up from an ancient waterfront swarming with foreign
LADY JEDBURGH.  [_R._]  Most kind of you to say these charming things to
duty to mention the fact to Mr. Otis when they came to discuss terms.
his one visit there. Unseen things not of earth--or at least not of
vice-admiralty's investigation brought out, and what was known of the
called Society nowadays do go.  That does not content her.  She wants you
summer sky. “Yes; horribly unjust of you. I make a great difference
can’t allow you to smoke cigars. You must have a cigarette. A cigarette
a phenomenon as the aerolite would be certain to start. There was
of Robert Ross.  The German dramatic rights are vested with Herr Ludwig
away.
languages in Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island. Professor
LADY WINDERMERE.  I shall dine in my own room.  I don’t want dinner, in
not shake your head: you know you are. Besides, Dorian, don’t deceive
MRS. ERLYNNE.  She is very tired.  She has gone to bed.  She said she had
the level country beyond till it rejoins the Aylesbury pike. Afterward
that.  What a good friend you are to him—to us!
inscription inside, I find that the thing isn’t yours after all.
“If you let any one have it but me, Basil, I shall never forgive you!”
search; and the life of a child being no more than an April day on which
Once more under control, the ship was making good progress when held
But while there were times when I rejoiced in the idea that my sufferings
life out. He said it must be some'at growed from a round ball like one
wings.  “How cool I feel,” said the boy, “I must be getting better”; and
two chapters immediately following, in which, as in some curious
curiously at the immense carved door with the now familiar squid-dragon
seemed to show the effects of sound calculation. It had really begun
of her_.]
marked it with red pencil. Victor might have read it. The man knew more
keeping it there while she is talking_.]  I realise that I am talking to
as a Persian carpet and as unreal. But there is no literary public in
to see it thoroughly.”
“What a strange thing!” said the overseer of the workmen at the foundry.
[In a pathetic voice.] Miss Prism, more is restored to you than this
“Because I have loved so many of them, Dorian.”
Mrs. Vane glanced at her, and with one of those false theatrical
and in the absence of his host stammered out a desperate tale once
recalled the old Sunday stories in the _Advertiser_; these things, and
Yog-Sothoth with the long chant that ye'll find on page 751 _of the
If you don’t come to my assistance, I am ruined.
Between seven and eight thousand a year.
heavy scent of the roses seemed to brood over everything.
that is having, in our own day, its curious revival. It was to have its
idualist point of view bad enough, but what excuse can
HOPPER.  You don’t mind my taking Agatha off to Australia, then, Duchess?
presence.  You might wait for us to do that!
difficult.  He understood Christ, and so he became like him.  We do not
the whole world for me. That is always a dreadful moment. It fills one
driven considerably south of her course by exceptionally heavy
. . .
GWENDOLEN.
me to show a somewhat impatient nature—I would beg of you to reconsider
else. He would be a wonderful study.”
offer_, _when he sees wife looking at him with her clear_, _candid eyes_.
Wednesday, the great shock came. Tucked obscurely away in a corner of
Europe_. The cuttings largely alluded to outré mental illnesses and
One is apt to grow old-fashioned quite suddenly.  I have known many
at the table was gone.
apparently, had told the truth when he said that it was wholly
forehead with a cool musk-scented vinegar.
Whateley, who wanderingly remembered ancient things but who had been
rambles in the hills, bearing in her misproportioned arms the swarthy
“That entirely depends on how you sit to-day, Dorian.”
bright, and glistened. As it had killed the painter, so it would kill
Windermere.  [LORD WINDERMERE _bites his lip and frowns_.]  It will make
from the stars slavered and gibbered like Polypheme cursing the fleeing
Rose-tree, and set her breast against the thorn.  All night long she sang
the Arkham country hereafter. Three of the men who had been with Ammi
Here he faltered, and seemed to shiver afresh with the fright that had
do and failed?
It would distress me more than I can tell you, dear Gwendolen, if it
few. All of these, however, bore out the notes in full. I have often
so fussy as yew be." And without saying more he rose and strode out of
glen itself. They would do that. I allus says Col' Spring Glen ain't no
imposing on the veteran scientist. These responses from esthetes told
Goring not here?  I was told he was at home?
trip by taxicab, and knocked with palpitant heart at the door of a neat
mere outward of things, and feel pity, what pity can be given save that
could not be believed by those who had not seen a sample, as indeed was
upon the latch.
ACT DROP.
simplicity of pathos wedded and made one with sublimity of tragic effect,
and at the end of the tests the
town by the curving road on the south. I vaguely wished some clouds
ife should not console
could never like; but I was willing enough now to admit both his genius
Devil's Hop Yard in an awful shape. Haff on 'em's clean gone, an' nigh
that he had never even thought of searching it for Merwin or Zenas.
On the occasion of the visit, ran the professor's manuscript, the
_Belial_, being heard from under Ground by above a Score of
and I
attention.
really must have a good stare at her.  [_Goes to door of ball-room and
became current about him after he had passed his twenty-fifth year.
CHASUBLE.
were. The men were a poor lot, but, egad! the women were wonderful.
read and what one shouldn’t. More than half of modern culture depends
that.
Then he looked at Lord Henry. “Dorian Gray is my dearest friend,” he
compared to the heart of a man?”
nervous system was so great that he fled back to his room as hard as he
be remembered by them in turn.
you, Robert, very sorry indeed.
in the air.
might awake.
poor Johansen went, so I shall go. I know too much, and the cult still
when you heard of it first. I read of it quite by chance in a late
the ghost had made him swallow it. All his great achievements came back
data on the Cthulhu Cult, and evidence that it had strange interests
oiling his chains. I am bound to acknowledge that it was with a good
chocolate. The mellow November sun came streaming into the room. The
If heaven ever wishes to grant me a boon, it will be a total effacing
[_Whispering to him_.]
had not his home lain outside the bounds of the future lake. Relief
Rash, the last Duke of Burgundy of his race, was hung with pear-shaped
o be set back by some unforeseen
mind wonderfully, and does away with all one’s prejudices.”
servant.  Always comes in the moment one rings for him.  When he comes I
about the boy, who may have had some kind of a fringed belt and a pair
“This is,” interrupted Dorian. “You must admit, Harry, that women give
Beckenham, the companion of the Prince Regent in his wildest days, and
going to say good-bye to some of your friends—to Tom Hardy, who gave
to tell me what every one in London knows already—your daily visits to
You will do me the justice to admit that. You were stern, harsh,
CECILY.
Car les miroirs ne nous montrent que des masques . . . Oh!  Oh! du vin!
low doorway and locked the accursed secret behind him. There would be
Girls don’t think it right.
are spelt differently, and mean quite different things.
Then a little Frog, with bright jewelled eyes, and a green mottled coat,
LORD GORING.
dreams at night, they protest, are very horrible in that grotesque
loveless thing.  Arthur must have read my letter by this time.  If he
incredible to him.
Lady Bracknell
Richard Strauss.  The right of English translation is the property of Mr.
wouldn't look like nothin' ye expeck. Ye needn't think the only folks
“This is a delightful spot,” he said, “we must ask the Hail on a visit.”
l. Indeed, I should be sorry to
her face. Her eyes were lit with an exquisite fire. There was a
than he did._"
texts with the aim of discovering a certain passage which would have
to me.  This letter of yours, Gertrude, makes me feel that nothing that
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Still seated_.]  Do you think then—of course I am
of policemen. Five of the worshipers lay dead, and two severely
LORD GORING.  My dear Robert, it’s a very awkward business, very awkward
any of my parties, have you, Mr. Gray? You must come. I can’t afford
to-morrow.
lui ai donné une petite boîte qui contenait des parfums, et une bague
“If you want a red rose,” said the Tree, “you must build it out of music
ALGERNON.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  You think science cannot grapple with the problem
desire for a new sensation, as Lord Henry had hinted, with his mocking
Then he flew gently round the bed, fanning the boy’s forehead with his
Ah, you may laugh, my boy, but it is a great thing to come across a woman
“How horrid of you, Harry!” cried the duchess. “Isn’t it, Mr.
those subtle words that dealt with soul and sense, till he had found in
“Why is he weeping?” asked a little Green Lizard, as he ran past him with
got nothing from the house of the rich I would get something at the house
MRS. CHEVELEY
hideously unmistakable tracks showed what had passed by. Only a few
Goring!  I am at Claridge’s.  Don’t you think you might leave a card?
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Sitting down_.]  I wish I had known it was your
bloated corpulence, and squatted evilly on a rectangular block or
dim seats of consciousness and terror far subtler than the ear; yet
between the ground story and the peaked roof. They had torn down the
passed over the moon, and the silhouette of clutching branches faded
pushed back from the rud like they'd a haouse ben moved along of it.
ALGERNON.
killed my love. You used to stir my imagination. Now you don’t even
the water had been emptied. It had a very queer colour, and as all the
retire into a convent, or become a hospital nurse, or something of that
GWENDOLEN.
genius is.
had much better let me have it, Basil. This silly boy doesn’t really
glistening; long icicles like crystal daggers hung down from the eaves of
“So little Hans worked away for the Miller, and the Miller said all kinds
The little supper with his companions, one of whom has already sold him
then she stopped and peered back. Once, she began to sing in a hoarse
and problems for expert solution.
LADY WINDERMERE.  _I_ will, Duchess.  I will have no one in my house
were to be. From him there were no protests at the miles of old wood
LADY WINDERMERE.  Cowards are always pale!
CHAPTER XI.
the dominance of form_.
is the only thing worth having.
to see him alone. He says things that annoy me. He gives me good
bring my horse round. No. Never mind. I’ll go to the stables myself. It
swore to a slow but steady increase in the mysterious hill noises. On
tossed into the air like great gilt flowers had their subtle
a
happy. Of course, it is sudden—all really delightful things are. And
THE EARL OF CAVERSHAM       _Mr. Alfred Bishop_.
a strangely unseasonable noise in the deep valley behind, and even in
s ministers on earth still bellow and prance and
to me, but the fact is I have just had a telegram to say that my poor
It seems to me, Miss Fairfax, that I am trespassing on your valuable
felt, whilst the following Hallowe'en produced an underground rumbling
SALOMÉ.  Est-ce un vieillard, le prophète?
of note. My attitude was still one of absolute materialism, _as I wish
scale, but he cut her short. Trunks had to be carried down and mufflers
SECOND SOLDAT.  Un autre qui vient de la ville de Chypre, qui est jaune
and argue, rather than descend and beard the unknown Cyclopean horror
[The music stops and Algernon enters cheerily.]
GWENDOLEN.
spots were once the burial-places of the Pocumtucks; even though many
not often reproduce that cryptic regularity which lurks in prehistoric
remembered that, some few days before, he had given a band of gipsies
scandal.
anxious. It would have been terrible if any cloud had come across a
t to entitle me to his manuscript, I bore the document away
terms.  Indeed, the Court Gazette called him a triumph of Pylotechnic
not true, why trouble about it? But what if, by some fate or deadlier
capable of motion there would have been a deed so monstrous as to damn
its own weapons.  What this century worships is wealth.  The God of this
of it.
JACK.
“Hush! Don’t say that. You have done enough evil in your life. My God!
bouche.
large luncheon-basket.
and perspective seemed upset.
Hallward shook his head, as he entered, and followed Dorian into the
That is the only thing for her to do.  That is the only thing for any
remarkable phenomenon,” said the Professor of Ornithology as he was
vellous than anything is the suffering of men and of
ude?
introduce her to poor dear Aunt Caroline.  I believe she is going to
and again.
Oh!
black fur, roughly resembled the hind legs of prehistoric earth's giant
of whom had talked with the policemen, seemed at first as perplexed as
"CHAINED TO IT WAS A GAUNT SKELETON"
our world and our conceptions have no part.
doing up there, though once she turned pale and displayed an abnormal
blasphèmes.  Et l’ange du Seigneur Dieu le frappera.  Il sera mangé des
petites fleurs blanches qui dansent sur un arbre . . . Ah! non.
er_      _1909_
out-witted! The old Canterville look came into his eyes; he ground his
ALGERNON.
in commercial use, at Circular Quay in Sydney Cove, but gained nothing
in detail; and was disappointed to find it of only moderate length.
a mirror of silver, as the shadow of a rose in a water-pool, so was the
“You are mad. What have I done to you?”
indicated; and most of the natives followed slowly.
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Enfin, ils ne croient qu’aux choses qu’on ne peut pas
intentions that always entitles a man to be called a representative
MRS. ERLYNNE.
restlessness and oppression; a touch of the unreal and the grotesque,
troublés par des lunes fantastiques . . . Pensez-vous qu’il parlera
d Henry’s, where he
it is so cold.”
has become dreadfully mixed.  One sees the oddest people everywhere.
or the luxury of a regret. The only way to get rid of a temptation is
season, hasn’t it?
LORD DARLINGTON.  You think the age very bad?
canvas, smiled Lady Elizabeth Devereux, in her gauze hood, pearl
this afternoon.
LORD WINDERMERE.  I beg of you.
he rushed for the staircase, but found Washington Otis waiting for him
image prove it?--but that shape was not made of matter. When the stars
phrase they always use, and the expression has the perfect wisdom of love
LORD WINDERMERE.  I hope my wife will give it you.
little real interest for me, and morality absolutely none, there was
Very well, then. My poor brother Ernest is carried off suddenly, in
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Because he leads such an idle life.
cryptic poison from the well--seething, feeling, lapping, reaching,
explanations, he set out at once for Arkham and notified the
“‘Do you think it would be unfriendly of me if I said I was busy?’ he
“Take care, Basil. You go too far.”
"But as to this thing we've just sent back--the Whateleys raised it for
good. Nahum borrowed a horse from Ammi for his haying, but found it
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  But it’s quite true, my dear.  The whole of London
d’ivoire.  On dirait une image d’argent.  Je suis sûre qu’il est chaste,
Dorian strolled along by his side. The keen aromatic air, the brown and
Dowager Duchess, whom he had frightened into a fit as she stood before
emphasis, was very sad. The subject, a widely known architect with
were to be.
describes it as the type of one who has the key of knowledge, cannot use
I was told you expected me in the vestry, dear Canon. I have been
hearts.  Heart is not in you.  You are bought and sold.  [_Sits L.C._]
far than any of the communities within thirty miles of it.
one night as he waited at the stage-door, had set loose a train of
healthy nor decent place.
feet, but before the ambulance could reach him he was dead. Physicians
LADY BRACKNELL.
huskily to Zenas for more wood. Wood, indeed, was sorely needed; since
came the storm of April 2nd, and a gathering of the clouds about his
next morning both chips and beaker were gone without trace, and only a
It was clear to him that the experimental method was the only method by
[_Burying his face in his hands_.]
“Thanks, Basil,” answered Dorian Gray, pressing his hand. “I knew that
buy bread with.  So I first sold the silver buttons off my Sunday coat,
The dream-narratives and cuttings collected by the professor were, of
his wings, and making silver ripples.  This was
in commercial use, at Circular Quay in Sydney Cove, but gained nothing
state of doubt.
“I am waited for in Egypt,” answered the Swallow.  “To-morrow my friends
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Laughing_.]  Of course I do.  You’ll carry it so
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  No; that money gave me exactly what I wanted, power
the words seemed wrung out of him almost against his will.
to appeal to what is worst in him.  We make gods of men and they leave
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Sweet girl!  So devoted to sunsets!  Shows such
"Up thar in the rud beyont the glen, Mis' Corey--they's suthin' ben
was. And not a bad thing either.
tarlike stuff that smells awful an' drips d
nervously at his underlip. Between two of the windows stood a large
LORD GORING.  So do I, father.  Everybody one meets is a paradox
MRS. ERLYNNE.  What a nice speech!  So simple and so sincere!  Just the
the peril of casual perusal. During a walk through a narrow lane near
ALGERNON.
Louis Seize cane_.  _His are all the delicate fopperies of Fashion_.
The rural tales are queer. They might be even queerer if city men
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Smiling_.]  Almost fatal.
in vain concerning the historic affiliations of the cult. Castro,
Wheel, who was still shaking her head, and murmuring, “Romance is dead.”
each other very dearly.  I heard all about them this morning from a
of art, nothing more suggestive in its subtlety of observation, than
to heave alongside their enemy and board her, grappling with the
charges that was quite untrue and transferred to me by revolting malice,
you know, just as you know less than you want to know.”
He leaped from the saddle and threw the reins to one of them. In the
primal, undimensioned and to us unseen. _Yog-Sothoth_ knows the
have never known.”
Miss Prism were in the garden. He said he was anxious to speak to you
night she is more marvellous.”
punished.
Thursday?
The next day the workmen came to put everything tidy.  “This is evidently
MABEL CHILTERN.  Dear Gertrude, don’t say such a dreadful thing to Lord
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_With a gesture of despair_.]  Lady Windermere, Lady
“‘Buy back your wheelbarrow?  You don’t mean to say you have sold it?
Goring not here?  I was told he was at home?
She is bound to him for three years—at least for two years and eight
morning papers. I wrote down to you to ask you not to see any one till
'tain't no use ... I seen it time an' agin Zenas was took ... whar's
I have a country house with some land, of course, attached to it, about
logic of passion, and the emotional coloured life of the intellect—to
would feel that the look in his eyes was false, his voice false, his
LORD GORING.  A diamond snake-brooch with a ruby?
artificial manner.
the tall, graceful young man who was standing by him.
serious in making me
for I am extremely sensitive.  No one in the whole world is so sensitive
But he never fell into the error of arresting his intellectual
HOPPER.  Wasn’t it made at the same time as the others, Duchess?
light-hearted gaiety of schoolboys, were evidently amusing themselves
had suddenly stopped beating. “A sailor?” he cried out. “Did you say a
hills, and because of the unwonted stench and the surging, lapping
turning bad people into good people at a moment’s notice. As a man sows
unwell. You can hardly have forgotten that some one very closely
rempli mes veines de feu . . . Ah!  Ah! pourquoi ne m’as-tu pas regardée,
Accordingly he attacked the manuscript with the preliminary assumption
LORD CAVERSHAM.  I use it, sir.  I use nothing else.
think the play was, Harry?”
smell like he smelt when he faound the big tracks las' Monday mornin'.
[Illustration: "The ring of worshipers moved in endless bacchanale
“I hope not,” said Dorian with a sad look in his eyes. “But I am tired
sleep.
from what St. Francis of Assisi calls 'my brother the wind, and my sister
is really the only place.”
“At least you are like it in appearance. But it will never alter,”
more respect, and wondered why the Gardner dogs seemed so cowed and
was so totally unknown.
escaped even the cutting bureau which had at the time of its issuance
horrid, and vulgar, and as for dishonesty, you know you stole the
JAMES.  Lord Caversham has been waiting some time in the library for Sir
wandering. He did not know what to do, or what to think. Finally, he
last night, and I think I saw the inner city at the 2 magnetic
mittens on her wrinkled hands, Mrs. Leaf bustled into the library. He
me. Your town address at the Albany I have. What is your address in the
the table and putting his cup down. “I hope Dorian has told you about
not realize that we live in an age when unnecessary
When the sound of their footsteps had died away, Dorian locked the door
GWENDOLEN.
good, an' I think as all the men-folks ought to git up a party an'
more of life. He must be sure, also, to write to her by every mail, and
When they entered, they found hanging upon the wall a splendid portrait
amusing place?  I do!
HÉRODIAS.  Il ne faut pas la regarder.
adoringly, madly!  You did not know it then—you know it now!  Leave this
may be so, but at least it is not so superficial as thought is. To me,
When he entered the somewhat sombre hall, the butler told him that they
the pale undergrowth beyond endless avenues of forest night. Reluctant
HÉRODIAS.  Ah!  Ah!  Je voudrais bien voir ce jour dont il parle, où la
CECIL GRAHAM.  Now, my dear Tuppy, don’t be led astray into the paths of
LORD GORING.  [_Is a little taken aback_, _but recovers himself_.]  Don’t
Lord Henry sitting alone, in the morning-room, looking very much bored.
He knew that the senses, no less than the soul, have their spiritual
treatises, and suc
sudden.
Paris, a post to which he considered that he was fully entitled by
hat he had
like what he smelt up to the Whateley rewins Monday mornin'. An' the
“OLD Stick!” said the Rocket, “impossible!  GOLD Stick, that is what he
CECILY.
CECILY.
strengthen, and at last it was very plain that healthy living things
directory.
ain't even so human as he was. They's allus ben unseen things araound
placed the baby in the hand-bag.
insist on it!
MRS. ERLYNNE.  I am afraid not.  Our lives lie too far apart.  But there
your dress is sadly simple, and your hair seems almost as Nature might
sell you that letter, and the price I ask for it is your public support
desire. I am too much concentrated on myself. My own personality has
LORD GORING.  [_Somewhat taken aback_.]  Well, yes, it is—I am bound to
Presently Wilbur raised his head and began speaking in that strange,
age that was at once sordid and sensual.
began to be bad.
[Looks in her pocket for note-book and pencil.]
an nous leur sacrifions des jeunes hommes et des vierges: cinquante
Windermere.
th of cleverness. Everybody is clever nowadays. You
bas-relief. It was, Johansen said, like a great barn-door; and they all
time two policemen had arrived; and Dr.
now lying before the meeting.
gone, whether they git me er not. Ef they dew, they'll keep up
are of older standing. They date beyond body_--or without the
past he is still your brother. You couldn’t be so heartless as to
Whateley, who wanderingly remembered ancient things but who had been
really dreadful.  The Reed used to like the rain, but that was merely her
square, with its blank, close-shuttered windows and its staring blinds.
instinct with a fearsome and unnatural malignancy, was of a somewhat
together that which I hope may never be pieced together again. I have
small barred window of that terrible attic room where nameless things
Lord Henry took up his hat and gloves. “You are very pressing, Basil,
whilst the long, curved claws of the doubled-up, crouching hind legs
MRS. CHEVELEY.  The art of living.  The only really Fine Art we have
to be!” He held the light up again to the canvas and examined it. The
were becoming fewer and fewer. When school closed the Gardners were
JACK.
“You have not spoiled my pleasure in meeting you, Mr. Gray,” said Lord
After some time, he thrust away his plate and put his head in his
displayed a freedom from infantile lisping of which many children of
LADY WINDERMERE.  This afternoon?  But I wanted so much to come and see
touch this screen, everything is over between us.”
approve of the modern sympathy with invalids. I consider it morbid.
none. All three had seen the body of Wilbur Whateley as it lay on the
Charity_.
ALGERNON.
Opinions were divided as to notifying the Massachusetts State Police,
LADY WINDERMERE.  I must speak of it.  I can’t let you think that I am
the flowers he sends are lovely.”
room which several callers saw, though no one
the masonry of that charnel shore that was not of earth the titan Thing
Only with persistent knocking could I rouse the aged man, and when he
more intensified even. The quivering ardent sunlight showed him the
business is that your friend Bunbury is quite exploded. You won’t be
THE END
“Oh, Basil is the best of fellows, but he seems to me to be just a bit
in detail; and was disappointed to find it of only moderate length.
I teach the one his vices, and the other his debauchery? If Kent’s
three is company and two is none.
cursed Voices of _Azazel_ and _Buzrael_, of _Beelzebub_ and
must leave that house.
alternate layers of ruby and sapphire. He loved the red gold of the
my room till I have got it.
I beg your pardon?
guests? What ideas you have of hospitality!
My letters! But, my own sweet Cecily, I have never written you any
the moments the shining of the trees increased, while their restless
window and leaning his forehead against the cold, mist-stained glass.
stomacher, and pink slashed sleeves. A flower was in her right hand,
indicated; and most of the natives followed slowly. The sky was growing
smiling now. And there is worse behind. I know you and Harry are
_Watteau would have loved to paint them_.]
g.] I am afraid you must be under some
born in one of your London suburbs shortly after Mrs. Otis had returned
years since I have been in London for the Season, and I must say Society
proximity to phases of nature and of being utterly forbidden, and
“How unreasonable of her! You should give her warning.”
GWENDOLEN.
LADY CHILTERN.  I hardly think there will be much in common between you
[Picture: Decorative graphic of windmill and overturned barrow]
Bunbury? Oh, he was quite exploded.
she would be the prettiest fool in
had shrunk, Nahum said as he pointed out the big brownish mound above
LORD GORING.  Oh! I do that as it is.  And self-sacrifice is a thing that
rosettes upon her little pointed shoes. He knew her life, and the
Pray allow me to detain you for a moment. This matter may prove to be
intellectual speculation is when separated from action and experiment.
8
me. She had no right to kill herself. It was selfish of her.”
he spoke he seemed to reflect some elusive element wholly unpossessed
indeed_, _and so masters it_.  _He is the first well-dressed philosopher
Illness of any kind is hardly a thing to be encouraged in others.
of a dishonest and dishonourable action may be guilty of it a second
"glorious fulfilment" which never arrives, whilst items from India
strange vegetable conditions, the unknown disease of livestock and
JACK.
what might have happened, he overcame his fears and paid the Gardner
absolute confidence. I pity any poor married woman whose husband is not
but so good—well, they’re always at the window doing fancy work, and
the graoun' whar the side timbers is blowed away. An' they's awful
ACT DROP
grey and brittle.
usual.  I saw him talking to that Mrs. Cheveley when he came in.
“You lie!” cried James Vane.
transmission, adequate or inadequate, of sense impressions.  It is in the
might.  If they had lost their only son there would be no use in saying
Prevention of Discontent among the Upper Orders. The Bishop, who was
women are all dandies, aren’t they?
rumblings from the ground below. In 1747 the Reverend Abijah Hoadley,
forgotten something upstairs. They waited some time for her, but she
Examining one day the reserve specimens roughly set on the storage
scatter in the air.”
consciousness seemed half to slip away. Unfortunately such moments
faint, half-musical sound from the distance, as if a loud chant
them. The Americans are an extremely interesting people. They are
Ol' Whateley must a raised suthin' in that there nailed-up haouse as
is a great delicacy.  It will sound strange that dry bread could possibly
with a pail and had come back empty-handed, shrieking and waving his
discovered.
“Too cold for Monsieur?” asked his valet, putting an omelette on the
know how a voice can stir one. Your voice and the voice of Sibyl Vane
butler and ask.  [_Touches the bell_.]
Jack in the country?
rank water was hauled up and splashed on the soaking ground outside.
it so well in the daily papers. What you really are is a Bunburyist. I
his sway. Some day he would call, when the stars were ready, and the
SALOMÉ.  Vous avez juré, Hérode.
brought him back. The man rang the bell several times, but there was no
came the storm of April 2nd, and a gathering of the clouds about his
ceased to play—I tell you, Dorian, that it is on things like these that
t try to navigate after the first
searchlight, giving dull reflections in the little ground pools where
he muttered. “And now, good-bye. Let us never see each other again.”
negative result, though scattered cases of uneasy but formless
their faithful cult _and their mastery of dreams_? Was I tottering on
It isn’t Ernest; it’s Jack.
JACK.
Cthulhu still lives, too, I suppose, again in that chasm of stone
you because you loved him so much.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  In defending myself against Mrs. Cheveley, I have a
well water? Very possibly. It might be a good idea to analyse it. But
the world become absolutely meaningless to one.  Love changes one—_I_ am
"But I don't know what they mean."
sunken once more, for the _Vigilant_ sailed over the spot after the
singular persistence. Six times within an hour the farmer saw the
schools and back.
s not true!
n’avez jamais eu d’enfant, même d’une de vos esclaves.  C’est vous qui
refinement of feeling, does it not?
analyse it some day. The passion for property is in it. There are many
MISS PRISM.
ready been made? Yes, life had decided that for him—life, and
N’est-ce pas qu’elle serait très belle comme reine? . . . Ah! il fait
“I want you to beware of him.”
talk to.  And I am full of interesting information.  I feel like the
Seized with a panic, which, under the circumstances, was only natural,
laissez-moi parler, Salomé.
by some hateful current of vapour.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  The higher education of men is what I should like to see.
“‘It has certainly been a hard day,’ said little Hans to himself as he
three or four might well be proud. The boy was not talkative, yet when
the matter of determination far from easy. As he copied the formula
to me of the smallest value except what one gets out of oneself.  My
LADY CHILTERN.  Well, what use is it to her?  Why should she not have it?
in an easy-chair in his office, but was at the manuscript again before
the soul!” How the words rang in his ears! His soul, certainly, was
HÉRODIAS.  Je trouve que ma fille a bien fait.
with terrible distinctness. He winced at the memory of all that he had
engagement is quite out of the question. I am Miss Cardew’s guardian,
little friend, and often spoke of him.  “How I would like to see him!” he
babbler on the couch, he took the keys from their nail beside the door
things are our only necessities; and there were several very
Colonies—nothing that I would call society—so when you have made your
| Ye Onlie True and Originale Spook, |
ACT II.  _Morning-room in Sir Robert Chiltern’s House_.
men, a sense of doom and
offered to take me behind the scenes and introduce me to her. I was
look so picturesque. But here is Harry! Harry, I came in to look for
at which, I am sorry to say, the twins burst into shouts of laughter.
of the pail. That was all. Nahum was past imagining, Mrs. Pierce was
PHIPPS.  Lord Caversham.
along the road.
consciousness was manifested, perhaps, in shapes and forms long
inspires one with absolute credulity.
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Moving slowly away from him_, _and looking at him
‘You look more like a prince. I must call you Prince Charming.’”
Gwendolen.]
looked different. One would have said that there was a touch of cruelty
absolutely reasonable. I think that is their distinguishing
Gardner's in the morning, and had noticed the skunk-cabbages coming
company of such a graceful, refined-looking girl. He was like a common
touched the back edge of the block, the seat occupied the center,
that all men are monsters.  [LADY WINDERMERE _rings bell_.]  The only
absolute incoherence, their absurd want of meaning, their entire lack
blasted
he had been a king's son.
once more be ready for Them. But at that time some force from outside
Donovan slid or somehow propelled himself down or along the jamb and
ALGERNON.
When I say that I am convinced of these things I speak with too much
dominant characteristic. As he looked back upon man moving through
dinner, and I feel bound to tell you, Mr. Otis, that the ghost has been
nighted woods like pestilential tempests from the gulfs of hell. Now
and monotonous chores through the aimless days. There was something of
help, as he was our oldest and best friend.
the right to inflict appalling punishment on the individual, but it also
Agatha.
secrets, but to the few, to the elect, the mysteries of life were
_3. The Madness from the Sea._
him.”
“There is really not much to tell,” cried Dorian as they took their
painted in order to try and talk brilliantly. _Rouge_ and _esprit_ used
Lavinia was fond of wild and grandiose daydreams and singular
MRS. ERLYNNE.
locked away the _Necronomicon_ with a shudder of disgust, but the room
toria.
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes! he shall.  Had he come himself, I admit I would
about that to-morrow.  James, you can take Agatha down.  You’ll come to
conceive. If I say that my somewhat extravagant imagination yielded
telephones rang tremulously. Those who took down their receivers
stalls had been terrible. There seemed virtually nothing to do to calm
good in me.”
took the entire world of the inarticulate, the voiceless world of pain,
[_Goes towards bell_.]
[After a pause.] They don’t seem to notice us at all. Couldn’t you
“‘It is certainly a great privilege to hear you talk,’ answered little
LORD GORING.  You have come here to sell me Robert Chiltern’s letter,
Armitage chose his words carefully.
woods that no axe has ever cut. There are dark narrow glens where the
colourless, the grace of his figure broken and deformed. The scarlet
“It is not to Egypt that I am going,” said the Swallow.  “I am going to
data on Wilbur Whateley and the formless presences around Dunwich. He
was leaving for town yesterday. Indeed, he always lays stress on your
youth smiles without any reason. It is one of its chiefest charms.
good in its way, quite a suggestion. I thought of telling the prophet
_Begins to start at the first page_.]  ‘Mrs. Erlynne—£600—Mrs.
"_Eh-ya-ya-ya-yahaah ... e'yaya-yayaaaa ... ngh'aaaa ... ngh'aaaa_ ...
anger_.  MRS. ERLYNNE _looks at him_, _and her voice and manner become
in reply, expressed his great pleasure at the news, and sent his best
o wind; but even the
DE NANJAC, MR. MONTFORD.]
for Their mode of speech was transmitted thought. Even now They talked
have no account.”
me till I, too, am at rest; "accidentally" or otherwise. Persuading the
ambassadeurs de César il faut faire tout honneur.
LORD GORING.  Of which I know nothing by experience, though I know
portable souvenir to bear away.
resemblance to the heavily shaded Arabic used in Mesopotamia, being
“Like all good reputations, Gladys,” interrupted Lord Henry. “Every
It certainly has changed its colour. From what cause I, of course,
LADY MARKBY.  Really, dear?  What?
girl may thrill me. I love acting. It is so much more real than life.
rage.  I determined to commit suicide on the very day on which I left
hideous news. The death had come to poor Thaddeus in his attic room,
he been made like that? Why had such a soul been given to him? But he
of raised plasterwork, and its brickdust felt carpet strewn with silk,
leaded panes of the window streamed the apricot-coloured light of a
perfume as if it had been wine. He came close to him and put his hand
the dim arrested light that struggled through the cream-coloured silk
As for your conduct towards Miss Cardew, I must say that your taking in
There was nothing more. No one dared do anything, and no one knew
dansé pour moi, votre fille.  Approchez, Salomé!  Approchez, afin que je
that he had never even thought of searching it for Merwin or Zenas.
the House to-morrow night in favour of the idea.  We must go to the
Radicals, we shall have you Prime Minister, some day.
The veterinary shivered, and walked to the front door to drop the heavy
that his passing at the age of ninety-two may be recalled by many.
feel, but I cannot mimic one that burns me like fire. Oh, Dorian,
turned over the pages, his eye fell on the poem about the hand of
chant meant only this: "In his house at R'lyeh dead Cthulhu waits
“I am in Lady Agatha’s black books at present,” answered Dorian with a
quite hopelessly faultless.  He is really unendurably so, at times!
expected last night.
well-defined mental and physical stigmata of degeneracy and inbreeding.
feet smoking a cigarette and looking up at her beautiful eyes.
going about like the converted, and the revivalist, warning people
whippoorwills continued their irregular pulsation, and the men of
and shrieked out "BOO!" in his ear.
sunset?
had a right to see the last of him. A deep grave had been dug in the
passions fled at his approach, and men whose dull unimaginative lives had
air of gorgeous servility. There was something about him, Harry, that
dreaded volume kept under lock and key at the college library--the
LORD GORING.  [_Holds up letter in pink envelope_.]  Ahem!  Phipps, when
the buggy. That was the last of Hero till they buried him next day.
It produces vibrations.
on two separate occasions. Now, go on. Why are you Ernest in town and
called me the Happy Prince, and happy indeed I was, if pleasure be
passions and modes of thought that belonged to every century except his
alter more. Its gold would wither into grey. Its red and white roses
with papers, and in a tumbler by his side there is a bunch of withered
Of course you know that.
DUMBY.  Dreadfully dull!  Dreadfully dull!
LADY WINDERMERE.  Now, Lord Darlington.  [_Rising and crossing R._,
“That is the reason, I suppose, that you never dine with me now. I
intellectual men I ever met.
Good heavens! . . . I had quite forgotten that point. Your decision on
“Romanticists! You have all the methods of science.”
you already more than I can say. My first impressions of people are
eal to say
and they wondered how swiftly or how lingeringly a cow or bullock
course; but it told on his wife more. The boys were better off, being
can finish my play,” and he looked quite happy.
since the horror happened, but he has never been there, and will be
The exaggerated folly of the threat, the passionate gesture that
my friends to be idle or sluggish.  You must not mind my speaking quite
experiment.
in his youth.
Whizz! Whizz! went the Catherine Wheel, as she spun round and round.
danced when the aurora leaped high over the ice cliffs. It was, the
as he did so.
aout o' the air it come from?"
fainted, and two were shaken into a frantic cry which the mad cacophony
masonry which can be nothing less than the tangible substance of
in the deferred resolutions of Chopin's music.  It is in the discontent
would be profanation for me to play at being in love. You have made me
he said, and told him that while there was much amongst the definite
only polite.  I don’t think I like you at all this evening!
monde, qui est le maître de tout, m’aime beaucoup.  Il vient de m’envoyer
not talked morality to you.  You must admit in fairness that I have
I do my best to give satisfaction, sir.
no utterance a very trumpet through which they might call to heaven.  And
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Ah! yes.  I think I know whom you mean.
philosophes romains qui se tuaient.  N’est-ce pas, Tigellin, que les
And now you have got to pay for it.  Sooner or later we have all to pay
g of that coloured vapour in the attic room, but
MABEL CHILTERN.  Oh! I hope you are not going to leave me all alone with
LORD DARLINGTON.  No, not the world.  Who are the people the world takes
being on the heights, I deliberately went to the depths in the search for
When I went into the hills and vales to survey for the new reservoir
“She is still _décolletée_,” he answered, taking an olive in his long
I promised you
remember her very well at Vienna thirty years ago, and how _décolletée_
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Again tears at the bracelet in a paroxysm of rage_,
to know one’s friends.”
ALGERNON.
wither, but they blossom again. The laburnum will be as yellow next
in recognizing both hieroglyphics and pictorial design. Many of his
walked or lumbered about. He at no time fully described this object,
vividness and darkened with dread of a giant monster's malign pursuit,
table-like rock on Sentinel Hill, sustain the popular belief that such
towards the window. “But, really, it seems rather absurd that I
bitter voice. “I am awfully sorry that I have made you waste an
years ago, written some foolish letter to some one . . .
in an easy-chair in his office, but was at the manuscript again before
seemed to hover about the strangely domed hills and the deep, shadowy
something. Ordinary people waited till life disclosed to them its
in order to get up to town I have always pretended to have a younger
Legrasse, deeply impressed and not a little bewildered, had inquired
At the time Nahum thought the lantern and pail were gone too; but when
death on the stage. Then Death himself had touched her and taken her
sometimes used to bring her work there, looked in to ask her to mend
he Sabaoth, [it ran] which did not
you—memories that now are horrible to me.  And how I worshipped you!
persistence that many could not sleep, and about 3 a. m. all the party
“and I am afraid you will hardly understand it. Perhaps you will hardly
LONDON: ST. JAMES’S THEATRE
I feel it is better to do so. The weather still continues charming.’
dans les déserts et dans les palais des rois.
know Them near, but of Their semblance can no man know, _saving
branch that hovered about half-way between soundness and decadence,
perch. As his pointed fingers touched it, it dropped the white scurf of
long fringed lashes almost touched his cheek. But he still watched the
culminated in violent apoplexy, and died in three days, after
there four and five times a week—they _see_ him.  They can’t help it—and
white hands moving aside the veil of the tabernacle, or raising aloft
draw all the poison from the soil. He was prepared for almost anything
Paris, by a severe chill. That gets rid of him.
no wind seemed ever to blow about. The trees near it were sickly
what people say of you behind your back.
He had waited a whole year for his bride, and at last she had arrived.
one else.
itself agin an' agin, though ye couldn't see nuthin' aout the front
to be recalled.  Pray point out Mrs. Cheveley to me.  I should like to
'tain't no use ... I seen it time an' agin Zenas was took ... whar's
me with your breast against a thorn.  All night long you must sing to me,
of that work of art are quite appalling.  The police should interfere.
them; or that when he taught on the hillside the multitude forgot their
the more keenly I feel that whatever was good enough for our fathers is
“Forty of us, in forty arm-chairs. We are practising for an English
stone molding--that is, one would call it climbing if the thing was not
make a copy of what parts he needed, thought suddenly of the possible
cold waste hath known Them, and what man knows Kadath?
thing which every man of that party agreed in whispering later on,
scientific reason for it all? If thought could exercise its influence
had been no wild legends at all since the witch trials, and even then
water’s silent silver the marvel of your own face. And it had all been
“Yes,” answered Hallward gravely, and with deep-toned sorrow in his
fashionable watering-place, and they have sent me away to recruit my
uncannily, so that he looked like a boy of ten as he entered his
observed on the floor of the ruined Whateley farmhouse when the horror
with him. Between gasps Luther tried to stammer out his tale to Mrs.
LADY PLYMDALE.  [_Looking at him_.]  I wish _you_ were!
was the fetish which this cult had cherished, and around which they
The next day the Swallow flew down to the harbour.  He sat on the mast of
interest in the play. They got restless, and began to talk loudly and
again.
you tell me that they are absolutely untrue from beginning to end, I
“so I will stay with you always.”
g of that coloured vapour in the attic room, but
[Writes as Algernon speaks.]
ure to be back
[Merriman does so, and goes out with footman. Gwendolen drinks the tea
ruined for a fault done in one’s boyhood almost?  I was twenty-two at the
DUMBY.  I don’t think we are bad.  I think we are all good, except Tuppy.
But there was no other place in the house so secure from prying eyes as
watched it wondered why one of the upper windows had been made into a
as unlit and empty, with a cloud of soot
lad with a good-natured grumble.
for the use of Queen Joan of Burgundy and was decorated with “thirteen
Village that he thought he heard a horse stamping on that floor above.
“It seems to me that we never do anything else,” murmured Dorian.
found in either of the collapsed shells which had been the Bishop house
days will be one with the deep's secrets; one with the hidden lore of
increased strength and the special signs of purpose it was soon to
“Ah, you have discovered that?” murmured Lord Henry. And they passed
Well, yes, I must admit I smoke.
Yet she was curiously listless. She showed no sign of joy when her eyes
"THE GHOST GLIDED ON MORE SWIFTLY"
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Quel est son nom?
chaos, that it created in us. Words! Mere words! How terrible they
ller nowadays starts with the end, and then goes on to the
thick-set of figure, and his hands and feet were large and somewhat
was so totally unknown.
together—music and that indefinable attraction that Dorian seemed to be
voyage. I can not attempt to transcribe it verbatim in all its
once. That was in consequence of a misunderstanding between myself and
not dare look back till they were far away on the high ground. They
what old Castro had told Legrasse about the primal Great Ones: "They
"Fifteen year' gone," he rambled, "I heerd Ol' Whateley say as haow
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  It is infamous, what you propose—infamous!
manner as he bent over his hostess’s hand was as easy and graceful as
LADY WINDERMERE.  Us!  From this moment my life is separate from yours.
ALGERNON.
LONDON: ST. JAMES’S THEATRE
sat beside me. Some subtle influence passed from him to me, and for the
Rosalie, Maid
faut que je fasse.
et écoute_.]  Il n’y a pas de
The Devoted Friend                        57
LORD WINDERMERE.  Well, you are certainly marrying a very clever woman!
ate Friday, clear of head, though sober, with a gnawing fear and
“I was saying,” continued the Rocket, “I was saying—What was I saying?”
"But as to this thing we've just sent back--the Whateleys raised it for
promise I shall consider it my duty to rescue him at once, and with a
of luminous amorphousness, that alien and undimensioned rainbow of
sings.
painting the Old World red, and carrying off your best actors and
mouthful.
storms and monster waves.
fellow-prisoners. The image on the monolith, of course, was carefully
fumes from troubling the brain and making the imagination turbid with
He would examine with minute care, and sometimes with a monstrous and
_London: Elkin Matthews and John Lane._
that you may be able to come up to town as often as you like. I have
still that my life had been full of perverse pleasures, and that unless
CHASUBLE.
olive-green lacquer, he used to give curious concerts in which mad
during which he related startling fragments of nocturnal imagery whose
a curious form of devil-worship, chilled him with its
that all the farmers, Nahum included, saw it first. The night had been
his husky voice sank low, while his body leaned forward and his right
week until he began stumbling and hurting himself, and then he shut
quotation.  Christ was not merely the supreme individualist, but he was
For nearly ten minutes he stood there, motionless, with parted lips and
“I am very glad you didn’t, Harry.”
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I cannot do what you ask me.
there is the stirring of birds among the leaves, or the sound of men
Egyptian bees that wrought in silver, and taking up the volume, flung
than what you are
shockingly frightful. Behind the figure was a vague suggestion of a
fro.
Above these apparent hieroglyphics was a figure of evidently pictorial
expression which no one ever saw in a woodchuck before. The boys were
LORD GORING.  She doesn’t turn out to be a spy, then?
le nier.
the painted image might be seared with the lines of suffering and
jaspers that are found near Cuzco and give forth a note of singular
grandfather's last words as quoted by the physician. A visit to Dunwich
One winter morning he looked out of his window as he was dressing.  He
At this point the first excited speaker interrupted.
Club Train.
CECILY.
“Harry, I can’t quarrel with my two best friends at once, but between
Dorian was one of her especial favourites, and she always told him that
ACT DROP.
CHASUBLE.
.]  Ah, Mr. Dumby, how are you?  I
judgment of some sort; though he could not fancy what for, since he had
“That a burnt child loves the fire.”
“Yes.”
child. He remembered with what callousness he had watched her. Why had
Remember that!  Ah, Margaret! only trust me!  A wife should trust her
“Your letter? Oh, yes, I remember. I have not read it yet, Harry. I was
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.   The odd trick?  Is that the husband, Lord
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
winter snow. Snow never seems quite so heavy on the blasted heath as
luctance about approaching, and did so at last only because
eminently natural; though privately I suspected young Wilcox of having
apparently, had told the truth when he said that it was wholly
LADY CHILTERN.  I may come with you, Robert, may I not?
laboratory; doing nothing at all and showing no occluded gases when
the others he saw Professor Warren Rice and Dr. Francis Morgan, men to
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_With a little toss of the head_.]  Of course I shan’t
CHASUBLE.
after all horizontal--and the men wondered how any door in the universe
among the cups, and her full red lips were smiling at something that
mean her no good. He was a gentleman, and he hated him for that, hated
city I see a young man in a garret.  He is leaning over a desk covered
When the half-hour struck, he passed his hand across his forehead, and
to pieces for days, and hardly knew what he was about. Screamed at
his hands_.]  But there is something more I have to tell you, Arthur.
LORD WINDERMERE.  Speak, sir!  Why is my wife’s fan here?  Answer me!  By
must leave that house.
MRS. CHEVELEY [_Rising_.]  I don’t mind waiting in the carriage at all,
This New Life, as through my love of Dante I like sometimes to call it,
rebellion of nature, till I had absolutely nothing left in the world but
fit even to be sent to a development camp. The government, alarmed at
LADY CHILTERN.  It has taught me that a person who has once been guilty
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Yes.  [_Pause_.]  You are devoted to your mother’s memory,
rain, she flitted out of the room, leaving a faint odour of
Yes, I remember now that the General was called Ernest, I knew I had
about pleasure. All your theories, in fact, Harry.”
nd seemed to be taking out partitions as he and
unknown father.
LORD WINDERMERE.  No, thanks, Cecil.
humans, and the unaccountable deaths of Merwin and Zenas in
At length they emerged on a muddy road to find the sun coming out.
people we call the dead? Sibyl! Can she feel, or know, or listen? Oh,
improvement in his ailment goes. I should be much obliged if you would
him I wouldn’t give him an answer till to-morrow.  Of course I am going
match, except the old Marchioness of Dumbleton, who had tried to catch
who made the next discovery.
his hand.  It has reached him already.
hate it.”
is Cecily Cardew.
ROBERT EARL OF LYTTON
attainments, had had a prominent part in all the deliberations; and was
arque.
is I am in gaol.  Certainly no man ever fell so ignobly, and by such
’s face perfectly. It was like a placid mask of servility. There
of all hands for the shore; and it was the work of only a few moments
with a complement of eleven men.
the number being slightly superior, because of their particularl
f darker depth
geologists and physiographers.
no longer lived, They would never really die. They all lay in stone
cried to God--
*       *       *       *       *
Every trifle of the scene burned itself into his brain. The sounds, the
floor. He waited for a moment, still pressing the head down. Then he
young Duke of Cheshire, whose grand-uncle, Lord Francis Stilton, had
! Horrid Geography! Horrid, horrid German!
CHAPTER XIX.
never forgive you.  I will never speak to you again.  I’ll have nothing
time.
admit that she is domestic,” he continued, “but I love travelling, and my
was. He was prisoned in thought. Memory, like a horrible malady, was
not beat her.”
his greasy smile penning his leading article, and arranging the foulness
LORD GORING.  What you know about him is not his real character.  It was
LORD GORING.  [_Striking the table_.]  Robert, you must fight her.  You
thing is impossible.”
you?
MRS. CHEVELEY.
there in the well, he has never been quite right since.
“I am waited for in Egypt,” said the Swallow.  “My friends are flying up
It's some'at from beyond."
prophète a dit des mots d’épouvante.  Peut-être à cause de cela va-t-il
when brought up by a firm rein. Thereafter Ammi gave Nahum's tales
tearing his hands away from Lord Henry’s grasp. “Dead! Sibyl dead! It
savage crew on the yacht's deck, and being forced to kill them all,
flushing at his own boldness, then stepped up on the platform and
rings.
gold might shine by day and the carbuncles by night.
gracefully.  You would carry off anything gracefully, dear Lord Augustus.
floor of the card-room in such a helpless paralytic state that, though
HÉRODE.  Pourquoi ne serais-je pas heureux?  César, qui est le maître du
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Grimly_.]  Not a subject on which much eloquence is
widow that my connection with her husband's "technical matters" was
simply the initials of the old gentleman's name, and the verse from the
CECILY.
gaunt circle of stones could be glimpsed against the sky. From the
delightful contrast. And he had such a beautiful voice. After a few
his burning lids as though he would have robbed the very brain of sight
think that, if you say the same thing over and over a great many times,
that, Robert.  It is the only thing to do now.  And you must begin by
SECOND SOLDAT.  Je ne sais pas.
for convenient pitching. And all the while the vegetation was turning
of the swallows that fly in and out of the little _café_ at Smyrna
It was to Paris that Basil had gone, and by the midnight train, as he
primal, undimensioned and to us unseen. _Yog-Sothoth_ knows the
theosophist, and disclosed an astonishing degree of cosmic imagination
sorrow of her life at present is that she can’t manage to have enough of
farmhouse. After midnight their shrill notes burst into a kind of
LORD GORING.  [_Looking up_.]  In public charities?  Dear me! what a lot
sometime as one of the great decadents; for he has crystallized in clay
call idiocy fifty years ago.  Shan’t stay in this house any longer.
looks rather like an orchid_, _and makes great demands on one’s
into the room.
from which spread long-stemmed white blossoms, the details of which
man can paint like Velasquez and yet be as dull as possible. Basil was
an iron clasp, was in another unknown alphabet--this one of a very
the world in half-human flesh and blood?"
LADY PLYMDALE.  Really?  Good-night, dear.  [_Looks at_ MR. DUMBY _and
applause, Sibyl Vane stepped on to the stage. Yes, she was certainly
be so pretty with all the dear little kangaroos flying about.  Agatha has
emitted, and all trace of the thing vanished with the puncturing.
venez
through the strange stories and odd dreams he was in the habit of
terrible than those which had reduced the group of natives to a state
"I tell ye, Mis' Corey, they's suthin' abroad as hadn't orter be
her sign of approval. When we are happy, we are always good, but when
He was walking home about eleven o’clock from Lord Henry’s, where he
taught to recite by some second-rate professor of elocution. When she
ENDOLEN.
to whistle. The Jew manager, who was standing at the back of the
In a short time I became convinced of his absolute sincerity, for he
them!
it develops that a very puzzling aftermath occurred at the college
ing it,
_2. The Tale of Inspector Legrasse._
o the attic. It was very close and
children had disappeared since the malevolent tom-tom had begun its
k like rain-drops, and nearly drowned two little
are right.  You have no courage; none!
I don’t think so.
choses qui n’existent pas, et quand on les porte dans la main on peut
never been fed from the tainted vegetation. Then something struck the
upon them in the night. It was voodoo, apparently, but voodoo of a more
I think I should like some supper very much.  I know I should like some
lines--written by Carlyle in a book he had given her years ago, and
from his horse, he patted him kindly on the shoulders, and said, "Well,
latticed room, with a vermilion-and-gold ceiling and walls of
which he could possibly have received the weird impressions.
PARKER.  Her ladyship has just gone out.
“Well, well,” said the Duck, who was of a very peaceable disposition, and
cruelty round the warped lips. He almost dreaded his valet leaving the
specimen--which proved, however, as baffling in the laboratory as
Corey.
JACK.
small barred window of that terrible attic room where nameless things
CECIL GRAHAM.  A married woman, then!
charming.  I think they are usually punished for it!  Certainly, more
well whom she will place me next to, to-night. She will place me next
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_Outside_.]  Nonsense, dear Windermere, you must not
scandal.] Twenty-eight years ago, Prism, you left Lord Bracknell’s
What on earth do you mean?
“I should think ‘The Idiot Boy’, or ‘Dumb but Innocent’. Our fathers
for some purpose. Slowly nerving himself, he finished his descent and
in detail; and was disappointed to find it of only moderate length.
At last he reached the Home Farm. Two men were loitering in the yard.
since withdrawn before the tide of advancing humanity ... forms
The waving of crooked, false-jewelled fingers gave grotesqueness to the
silicon compounds with mutual destruction as a result, it presented
What about the profligate Ernest?
door is closed when she reaches it_.  _Pale with anguish_, _bewildered_,
“You are glad you have met me, Mr. Gray,” said Lord Henry, looking at
to say. There is some answer to you, but I cannot find it. Don’t speak.
Sort de l’eau son corps rose et blanc.
, if this gentleman is wealthy, there is no reason why
the same. They love being dominated. I am sure you were splendid.
garnet cast out demons, and the hydropicus deprived the moon of her
mentioned by the professor.
personality of man.  Art has made us myriad-minded.  Those who have the
him he admitted that Nahum had feared something down there--so much so
don't mind a ghost in the house, it is all right. Only you must remember
Canning.
Berwick and I told her that didn’t matter much, as the lady in question
soon as the winter was over, and the primroses began to open their pale
Ones; free and wild and beyond good and evil, with laws and morals
CECILY.
e dogs' barking on the night Wilbur was born, but no known doctor
So the Swallow flew over the great city, and saw the rich making merry in
he led her across the dusky room. On the faded green tapestry were
Something terrible came to the hills and valleys on that meteor,
pond, looking just like a lot of yellow canaries, and their mother, who
or crawled around the heavy sensual mouth, wondering sometimes which
Devant une façade rose,
king’s arms, and five hundred and sixty-one butterflies, whose wings
He saw a most wonderful sight.  Through a little hole in the wall the
everybody will be there. You can come to my sister’s box.
what did it matter? What had Dorian Gray to do with Sibyl Vane’s death?
culture to accept the standard of his age is a form of the grossest
me some answer to these horrible charges that are made against you. If
burst forth like smoke from its eon-long imprisonment, visibly
WALTER CRANE AND JACOMB HOOD
LADY CHILTERN.  But what construction could she put on it? . . . Oh! not
'O Seigneur, donnez moi la force et le courage
would have fled had he not feared the scorn of the others, and it was
LORD GORING.  Thank you, Lady Chiltern.
right to know.” His feeling of terror had passed away, and curiosity
strewn with fallen fruit: of these we know nothing and can know nothing.
A Trivial Comedy for Serious People
and as soon as the interest of the play is entirely over, they propose
nothing in the whole world I would not give! I would give my soul for
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I have met Lord Goring before.
were brought him, but he ate only the smallest fraction of either.
"I have never told any one, Cecil," said Virginia, gravely.
CECILY.
had not so far hurt any human of unweakened mind, there is no telling
improper of that kind, I am obliged to send all the servants out of the
said, "an' naowadays they's more nor what I know myself. I vaow afur
A great friend of mine--a friend of ten years' standing--came to see me
had encountered a singular tribe or cult of degenerate Eskimos whose
uncle from motives of respect that you could not possibly appreciate,
themselves perfect by the worship of beauty.” Like Gautier, he was one
These Great Old Ones, Castro continued, were not composed altogether
He had not long survived his return, said his wife, for the doings at
Oh no! I loathe listening.
bearded, and uncouth of dialect, to consult the copy at Miskatonic,
either Ammi or his horse liked. The latter, indeed, had almost run away
thing.  From the moment I met you I loved you, loved you blindly,
conspicuous freshness of the tablet implied kinship with anything but
cabin and attended to a few matters of food for himself and the
What are you doing?
Above the waist it was semi-anthropomorphic; though its chest, where
e abnormal growth, and
memorized. He saw that his electric flashlight was in working order.
t has larger issues,
Oh, that is all right. Cecily is not a silly romantic girl, I am glad
little Nightingale who had built her nest in his branches.
thing which every man of that party agreed in whispering later on,
the night.
CECIL GRAHAM.  But I like talking to a brick wall—it’s the only thing in
a bimetallist.  Fortunately I don’t know what bimetallism means.  And I
everything. There had been a frantic shriek from the yard then, but
possible.  Sir Robert, you know what your English newspapers are like.
dark cult totally unknown to them, and infinitely more diabolic than
43' come upon a coastline of mingled mud, ooze, and weedy Cyclopean
cowardice of its sneer, and to pluck out the tongue of scorn by the
blow with a hammer, and it burst with a nervous little pop. Nothing was
“You wish me to defend my throne, then?”
has become dreadfully mixed.
Sir Robert is very entertaining, is he not?
Harry, I could hardly see this girl for the mist of tears that came
instinct with a fearsome and unnatural malignancy, was of a somewhat
Lord Bracknell would dream of allowing our only daughter—a girl brought
LORD GORING.  With pleasure, Miss Mabel.  [_Moves away with her_.]
past. The reception of his request seems to have been varied; but
certain letter, written on pink paper, is to be forwarded to Robert
needles as ruthless and as anciently known as the cryptic rites and
impulses.
next room for a moment.
HÉRODIAS.  Vous voyez bien ce qu’elle pense de vous.
would not turn a hair. You would not believe that you were doing
to the deal
disclosed to them.
travelled roads around Arkham.
shall be able at the end of my days to say, 'Yes! this is just where the
so changed his life? Here, in gold-embroidered red doublet, jewelled
vers leurs colombiers.  Elles ressemblent à des papillons blancs.  Elles
Street. He had cried out in the night, arousing several other artists
sick to death. Was it true that the senses could cure it? Innocent
am afraid I can’t stay more than a week this time.
Lines of fright deepened on every face; and Armitage, shaken as he was,
CHAPTER XI.
“Not at all,” answered Lord Henry, “not at all, my dear Basil. You seem
reform a man is by boring him so completely that he loses all possible
made faces at him, he decided to keep her locked in the attic. By July
ALGERNON.
r, and to glimpse a hellish advance
those who are on a level with them.
a table by her side lay a mandolin and an apple.
Nahum to deal with now; he must be fed and tended, and removed to some
LADY BRACKNELL.
and began to read it on the London boat.
He hesitated for a moment. “Very well,” he said at last, “but don’t be
in my soul.  And so, indeed, I went out, and so I lived.  My only mistake
to which any of his friends had access.
puisse gâter mon plaisir.
into my soul.
him, and looked
the inflexible laws of an iron formula: this immobile quality, that makes
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Frightened_.]  Has Mrs. Erlynne—?
knelt before the little child.
happened yesterday. The poor chap was killed in a duel at Spa a few
way, Lane, I see from your book that on Thursday night, when Lord
Arnheim—you remember the Baron?—used to tell me you had some wonderful
The Rocket was very damp, so he took a long time to burn.  At last,
and well-nigh preternatural intelligence. He was, however, exceedingly
in love with the most beautiful Reed.  He had met her early in the spring
there with the big garden-syringe, and being thus hemmed in by his
pendant douze années.  Il n’en est pas mort.  A la fin il a fallu
PARKER.  Is your ladyship at home this afternoon?
don’t listen, and if one plays bad music people don’t talk. But I’ll
blue silks and wrought with _fleurs-de-lis_, birds and images; veils of
come on the 751st page of his own defective volume. This much he could
[_A short pause_.]
These tales, of course, are obsolete and ridiculous; because they come
the vacant abyss overhead there came a disquieting suggestion of
that I have no brother, that I never had a brother, and that I don’t
Suddenly the sunshine seemed to lessen without the intervention of any
escaped. Men looked at one another and muttered. Then they looked down
dreams, but then something had happened.
makes one rebellious.  The most terrible thing about it is not that it
JACK.
heart peace had no dwelling,
he had rather taken a fancy. He was so unlike Basil. They made a
“What do you mean?”
northwest. The men from Arkham were undecided what to do. Seeking
LORD GORING.  [_Strongly_.]  Oh, fight in any case—in any case.
Street. He had cried out in the night, arousing several other artists
Yes. The Brighton line.
thank Heaven the branches did their worst twisting high up. The moon
tell me that you have exhausted life. When a man says that one knows
Whateley's reputation for black magic, and the unexplained death by
one that Bernal Diaz saw when he went with Cortes into the Mexican
origin, about a foot in height, regarding whose nature authorities
see that you belong to the lower orders.  A person of my position is
that the Earth is mother to us all.  As a consequence our art is of the
displayed shining bands unlike any known colours of the normal spectrum
it, I would have rejected it.  Had it been brought to me, I would have
he’s come.
He would write of what he knew before death came, but his wife must not
LADY CHILTERN.  Yes.
GWENDOLEN.
SECOND SOLDAT.  On ne le sait pas.  Il y en a qui disent que c’est Élie?
"Starve you to death? Oh, Mr. Ghost--I mean Sir Simon, are you hungry? I
one never discerned before.  One approaches the whole of history from a
place.
“_Fin du globe_,” answered his hostess.
sound very much the same, indeed they often are the same”; and he fell
Pierce has never told them of anything he recalls from the strange
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
untain-head.
life. Indeed, I have not mentioned the most important one.”
and turned pale, nudging Fred Farr and pointing to the dank, deep
his heart was beating itself to death in some empty hollow.
gone far along that path of retrogression so common in many New England
shrunken lids over the glazing gray eyes as the tumult of birds faded
time.
“I am too fond of reading books to care to write them, Mr. Erskine. I
their visitors with ill-concealed distaste, though they did not dare
“Romantic art begins with its climax.”
misconception. Ernest proposed to me exactly ten minutes ago.
s a tragedy in a man's life, a misfortune, a
half-past eight.”
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Stopping_.]  In the present case, on a matter of
goes to visit so often. And surely there must be much good in one who
whole thing. [_Goes towards her_.]
Dorian Gray entered the room. There was something in the purity of his
They have been eating muffins. That looks like repentance.
and shrieked out "BOO!" in his ear.
me horribly dependent on you.
LORD GORING.  About me, father.
Ardois-Bonnot hangs a blasphemous _Dream Landscape_ in the Paris spring
cult or system of cryptic lore, he besieged his visitor with demands
alleys between them, and the floor was too soft with the dank moss and
PERSONNES
manifestation.  It is man's soul that Christ is always looking for.  He
taken by something of that colour. He had said so at the last--said it
down, Sir Robert?  Now that we have both the same interests at heart we
er occurred to me that you would refuse. I see now that you were
and the Hail, and the Frost, and the Snow danced about through the trees.
offensive. You treated me as no man has ever dared to treat me—no
a sharp cry when he saw her eyes wander toward the notes he had taken.
wheelbarrow, I don’t think that it is much to ask you for a few flowers.
old men are ever capable of any emotion.”
“It came to you crowned.”
antiphonal responses to the ritual from some far and unillumined spot
of his night-thoughts after a
family, besides this affair of the curate.  Her own sister, Mrs. Jekyll,
father’s elder sister, you know.  She was stern to me, but she taught me
would have died rather than have crossed your life or his—oh! died,
what it might not have done at that last moment, and with its seemingly
Nahum had come to town to tell people about the stone, and had dropped
“There is no such thing as a good influence, Mr. Gray. All influence is
The worship of the senses has often, and with much justice, been
“Oh, I can’t explain. When I like people immensely, I never tell their
them, and each of them says something different. I don’t know which to
MRS. ERLYNNE.  You must believe it!  It is true.  It is his love for you
her habit. To her immense surprise, however, it was the Canterville
As he was passing out of the door, Dorian Gray touched him on the arm.
As the hills draw nearer, one heeds their wooded sides more than their
and in front of it, some little distance away, was sitting the artist
pieces of literature it has been our good fortune to
[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
to revive His subjects and resume His rule of earth. The time would
pride.  Far off, like a perfect pearl, one can see the city of God.  It
plan, and he knew that even in the end a large amount of uncertainty
Certainly not.
GWENDOLEN.
corked eyebrows, a husky tragedy voice, and a figure like a
This earlier experience had come in 1908, seventeen years before,
Bloch.  The operatic rights for every country are the property of Dr.
bring her out properly. She will make the world as mad as she has made
Jim frowned from time to time when he caught the inquisitive glance of
MISS MABEL CHILTERN, Sir Robert Chiltern’s Sister
any use in telling them.  They are the little cups that can hold so much
was started when Silas Bishop--of the undecayed Bishops--mentioned
Oxford.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  No; you see, to-morrow I am going to accept him.
unknown father.
trembling party realized it would be no use waiting for the moon to
did of you? I don’t think I have ever seen it since he finished it. Oh!
No: the appointment is in London.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thank you.  I knew we should come to an amicable
[_The_ VICOMTE _is about to retire_.
details, but merely told of the deaths of Nahum and Nabby, that of
“What can I do for you, Mr. Gray?” he said, rubbing his fat freckled
On the occasion of the visit, ran the professor's manuscript, the
ur children some day, won't you?"
flooded for the new reservoir.
OSCAR WILDE
her ... it'll git her ef we ain't keerful ... jest a colour ... her
ld have come
happy. Of course, it is sudden—all really delightful things are.
attic, and in response to an inquiring look Nahum said that his wife
that. Don’t be so indifferent.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Yes.  She has just reminded me that we were at school
[Advancing to meet her.] Pray let me introduce myself to you. My name
as much of the subject as any man I had talked with in Arkham. He was
All at once the dog started up abruptly, gave a frightened bark, and
the coincidence of the dream notes and odd cuttings collected by
Armitage and his companions. Then old Sam Hutchins thought of something
coquette, for she is always flirting with the wind.”  And certainly,
were right, They could plunge from world to world through the sky;
princesse?
certain snakes. Below the waist, though, it was the worst; for here
this book. Or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that he never
correspondence of those who attended, although scant mention occurs in
If there was less sympathy
“I wish I could trust myself,” said Lord Henry, laughing. “Come, Mr.
pasturage there sprang up a bizarre growth which only a botanist could
“Let this be a warning to you not to take vengeance into your own
fit even to be sent to a development camp. The government, alarmed at
immensely.
MISS PRISM.
gs' houses.
but that you were a man whom no pure-minded girl should be allowed to
nothing at all. Cecily, I am very much hurt indeed to hear you broke it
annoyance of his mother, who had set her heart on his standing for
in,” he said, coldly. The man turned round and went rapidly in the
him in an attic room across the hall from his mother's. The way they
is oneself.
ek, and I tried to give the fullest possible expression of
whispered. “I am so sorry I didn’t act well. I was thinking of you all
you. She tells me she is going down to Selby.”
improvisation. He felt that the eyes of Dorian Gray were fixed on him,
the way the great, overgrown mourning-cloak butterflies behaved in
rs they followed the great morbidity
bleues.  La mer erre dedans, et la lune ne vient jamais troubler le bleu
the lowly, for the wretched; but he has far more pity for the rich, for
a terrible part in the doings that were to come. It grew fast and big
Elle est toute nue.  Les nuages cherchent à la vêtir, mais elle ne veut
engagement? How dare you? This is no time for wearing the shallow mask
non-Euclidean, and loathsomely redolent of spheres and dimensions apart
half-insane father
that came from the corridor and the library."
[_He kisses her and goes out_.]
qu’on voit.  Cela rend la vie impossible.  Il serait mieux de dire que
found, though all the household confessed now and then to poorer health
her, while she herself and Mr. Otis searched every room in the house. At
to know thoroughly; but I don’t see any chance of it just at present.
They looked at each other, as they walked away, and sneered. One of
But he felt afraid of him, and ashamed of being afraid. Why had it been
deep ruts in the shadowy lanes between. The labour tired him more than
behind him, he seized it and
cold waste hath known Them, and what man knows Kadath?
CECILY.
them. They included not only a repetition of what he had formerly
pasturage, but he says he thinks it p'inted towards the glen rud to the
“Was there anything found on him?” said Dorian, leaning forward and
talking about Mrs. Cheveley!  Lord Goring says—what did you say, Lord
horror happened, but he has never been there, and will be
had forced my age to realise it afterwards.  Few men hold such a position
is horribly thoughtless, and seems to take a real delight in giving me
the strange days the professors stayed away in contempt. Only one
humbug from beginning to end. If a man is a gentleman, he knows quite
the black confessionals and long to sit in the dim shadow of one of
ALGERNON.
The Morrison Co.'s freighter _Vigilant_, bound from Valparaiso,
their heads and reaffirmed one vital fact.
order a copy. But pray, Ernest, don’t stop. I delight in taking down
crowd that the men were evidently trying to get to a subordinate peak
away far down in Cold Spring Glen. Then, amidst the dismal moans from
promise I shall consider it my duty to rescue him at once, and with a
leave his guests and rush back to town to see that the door had not
The sweep and dash of the brush on the canvas made the only sound that
was no atonement; but though forgiveness was impossible, forgetfulness
ght, Harry. I shan’t go to the club. It is nearly eleven, and I
must admit that I was rather annoyed at the idea of seeing Shakespeare
Houghton, like the whole of the region he had entered so reluctantly in
“But what world says that?” asked Lord Henry, elevating his eyebrows.
LADY BRACKNELL.
What did he die of?
“This is a delightful spot,” he said, “we must ask the Hail on a visit.”
have to get it all out of myself.  Neither religion, morality, nor reason
opera.” She laughed nervously as she spoke, and watched him with her
false dawns before the dawn itself, and winter days so full of sudden
HÉRODIAS.  Qu’est-ce que cela vous fait qu’elle soit pâle ou non?
“Yes, you are the same.
accounts for the fact that we all take such pains to over-educate
silicon compounds with mutual destruction as a result, it presented
Dunedin, N. Z., which was sighted April 12th in S. Latitude 34° 21',
future.
spring set for another, they have met, or may meet, with a violent and
MRS. MARCHMONT.  Olivia, I have a curious feeling of absolute faintness.
you!
skeletal. There were also a small deer and a large dog in about the
[Gravely.] In a hand-bag.
which faint drumming and red flame were noted on the distant hills.
Armitage, stocky, iron-gray Professor Rice, and lean, youngish Dr.
some one who would fill him with a strange idolatry? Was that one of
poor old Lord Mortlake trying to have a violent flirtation with me in the
had a most unhappy life; through no fault of her own, I am sorry to say.
He was carried at once into the blue drawing-room and laid upon one of
pursuers were gaining.
bowed and went up the walk.
horrors that you do there don’t affect you. If in some hideous
LADY BRACKNELL.
in the black dominion of the ancient and once passive nightmare. He
amusing.
dominant intellectual passion was for science. At Cambridge he had
Oh! it is absurd to have a hard and fast rule about what one should
romance, he obtained admission to my house by means of the false
but when I did so seemed only to be confronted by a greater and more
to us more often.  You know we are always at home on Wednesdays, and you
LADY MARKBY.  [_Genially unconscious_.]  Yellow is a gayer colour, is it
table close to_ LADY CHILTERN.]
the rich pall over the picture. As he did so, a knock came to the door.
LADY PLYMDALE.  How very interesting!  How intensely interesting!  I
“Ah! that is one of Harry’s views, isn’t it, Mr. Gray? I always hear
spasmodically, clawing in convulsive and epileptic madness at the
meeting; and so singular and hideous were the rites connected with
drawing-room_, _biting her lip_.]
I use the word in the sense of lost or mislaid. To your work, child,
ceased, Algernon enters.]
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _walks up and down for a moment_; _then sits down
West of Arkham the hills rise wild, and there are valleys with deep
up by the _Alert_ on March 22nd, and I could feel the mate's regret as
shrieks of laughter proceeding from the four-post bed. The shock to his
LADY BRACKNELL.
appearance of other people. It has had that excellent effect, amongst
When Ammi reached his house the horses and buggy had arrived before
give no guess. Merwin was gone, and there would be no use in telling
were little blossoms
"You know nothing about it, and the best thing you can do is to emigrate
cleverness quite of your own.  Now I mustn’t keep you.
everything that had ever been living had gone. Five eldritch acres of
than he did._"
se sons seldom return to the moldering gambrel
was usually sacrificed.
garden; “I hope there will be a change in the weather.”
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Looking up_.]  I always will now.  Only once in my
the abhorrent grounds seemed faintly luminous with more than the fitful
You are looking a little worse.
have a right to know.”
of the carriage.  The fact is that our Society is terribly
from the pit itself, had not their source been so unmistakably the
piazza of Perugia, those who had hated him coul
How exquisite they were! As one read them, one seemed to be floating
flowers,” he said; “but the children are the most beautiful flowers of
is rich ...”
man of that party agreed in whispering later on,
Ahem! Mr. Worthing, after careful consideration I have decided entirely
seemed a well-drilled chorus of hoarse voices would rise in singsong
the rest were committed to various i
took some blossoms to Arkham and showed them to the editor of the
mutter many curious prophecies about its unusual powers and tremendous
And to me, the pleasure is doubled by the reflection that it is extremely
The older matters which had made the sculptor's dream and bas-relief so
lonely dishonoured life, a lonely dishonoured death, it may be, some day?
a alone on the
cried. “Why have you changed your mind? You people who go in for being
part of space; a kind of force that acts and grows and shapes itself
everyone was listening still when It lumbered slobberingly into sight
purpose, and I am going to see it through at all costs to my health or
LADY BRACKNELL.
“All I want now is to look at life. You may come and look at it with
“By this time, however, the lights were being put out in the theatre,
to describe; and it was only by analogy that they called it colour at
us.
and she cannot marry without my consent until she comes of age. That
LADY CHILTERN.  I could not have done so.
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Ne restez pas ici, princesse!  Je vous prie de ne pas
LORD WINDERMERE.  You must know.  I demand an explanation.  Don’t hold
“You don’t understand me, Harry,” answered the artist. “Of course I am
deathless Chinamen had told him, were still to be found as Cyclopean
suppose, has not returned from town yet?
but even in the brightest sunlight a kind of quiet dread and portent
LADY CHILTERN.  Some tea, Lady Markby?
aout, an' dun't calc'late to miss it. Yew'll know, boys, arter I'm
[Rising and advancing.] Dr. Chasuble! This is indeed a pleasure.
sufficient to entitle me to his manuscript, I bore the document away
In fact, it is rather an aristocratic name. Half of the chaps who get
LADY BRACKNELL.
him arrange my room for me? He settles my flowers for me sometimes—that
I’m not a Bunburyist at all. If Gwendolen accepts me, I am going to
abroad, an' I fer one think that black Wilbur Whateley, as come to
IOKANAAN.  Ne m’approchez pas, fille de Sodome, mais couvrez votre visage
“Then what should we call you, Harry?” she asked.
LORD WINDERMERE.  A fatal mistake.
of the baffling bands were precisely like those which the strange
Lord Radley died without knowing that I betrayed him.  I would to God I
of their master as they had last seen him, in all the wonder of his
Mr. Worthing!
Our Auckland correspondent gives the _Emma_ and her crew an
“Yes,” continued Lord Henry, “that is one of the great secrets of
ic whinny from Ammi's horse outside,
tragedy of our age. Those finely shaped fingers could never have
running down the bank, with a kettle and some faggots.
foxes as they ought to be. Ammi listened without interest to this talk
night.
my dear Lady Ruxton,” she added, “I didn’t see you hadn’t finished your
houses. Women with hoarse voices and harsh laughter had called after
so. He would make that wonderful spirit his own. There was something
to be in love. But there is nothing romantic about a definite proposal.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Eagerly_.]  Oh yes, Robert, you should do that.  It is
about, Mrs. Cheveley!
LADY WINDERMERE.  Gerard, after my dear father.
rough-paven streets. Most of the windows were dark, but now and then
with her fondest love to her dear Uncle Jack.’ There is no objection, I
was always the result--there
near that institution. Wilcox was a precocious youth of known genius
started off with them to the mountain.  It took him the whole day to get
a time, don’t they?
delighted to have it so unexpectedly restored to me. It has been a
LADY CHILTERN.  Public honour has been the result.
into what it was originally made of, and can never exist again. It was
e men they flirt with.
“I have never searched for happiness. Who wants happiness? I have
seemed rather more helpful than the newer ones, and Armitage concluded
College, Cambridge. After the unfortunate accident to the Duchess, none
LORD WINDERMERE.
either cult or image, and now the detective had come to the highest
is damp. Mildew has got into the canvas. The
days. Ammi, whose head has been a little queer for years, is the only
scaly, rubbery-looking body, prodigious claws on hind
have I sung of him, though I knew him not: night after night have I told
her.
management of his collieries in the Midland counties, excusing himself
for Rice and Morgan. Far into the night they discussed, and the next
Merwin this time. He was gone. He had gone out late at night with a
It was the creation of such worlds as these that seemed to Dorian Gray
“I had thoughts of entering public life once myself,” remarked the Duck;
Lord Henry looked across the table. “Dorian is never annoyed with me,”
of the river, and they carried its message to the sea.
infants under a full year of age. His motions and even his vocal sounds
I intend to develop in many directions. [Gwendolen and Jack sit down
a-singin' an' laffin' till break o' day. Ef they dun't, they'll kinder
going to give you my wheelbarrow, it is
the rest of that day and evening the three men tortured their brains
Duchesses are; anything else is quite demoralising.
earnest and had a beautiful nature. I at once pictured to myself a
“On the wharf?”
Yes, but I have not been christened for years.
the dim, dust-stained arcades. Leaning back with half-closed eyes, he
MRS. ERLYNNE.  I am afraid I took your wife’s fan in mistake for my own,
to Boston to give up my position. I could not go into that dim chaos
families of high position strange coincidences are not supposed to
Of course I could, Cecily. You know I could.
nothing more than a spectral deepening of the sky's blue, pressed down
know what was abroad that night; and though the blasphemy from beyond
occurred happened after Lady Markby had left, and was really forced on me
without reading it, couldn’t he?  By the colour?
secret. The authorities at Tulane University could shed no light upon
want of principle and its want of profile. The chin a little higher,
My own darling!
was big Hugh the Miller.  Indeed, so devoted was the rich Miller to
the long brass chains by which it was suspended. “And, now, where shall
live in an age when men treat art as if it were meant to be a form of
ending!' now I try to say to myself, and sometimes when I am not
again and correlating the theosophical and anthropological notes with
pain for the beautiful soul.
[_Whispering to him_.]
had seen upstairs. Good God! What eldritch dream-world was this into
upstairs.”
A smile curved Lord Henry’s lips, and he turned round and looked at
country folk had seen the baby, and no one bothered to comment on the
vague forget-me-not eyes. She was a curious woman, whose dresses always
[LORD GORING, _dressed in the height of fashion_, _is lounging in an
PHIPPS.  His lordship told me to ask you, madam, to be kind enough to
swollen boughs of a maple against a moonlit sky. The boughs surely
CECIL GRAHAM.  That is a great error.  Experience is a question of
were graying now, and the fruit was coming out grey and dwarfed and
knows what a pleasure is.”
of those are there many sorts, differing in likeness from man's
to be raising its hands above its head at rhythmic intervals; and
we have to do.  I cannot put my sufferings into any form they took, I
[_Rising and crossing stage to C._]  We are only married two years.  Our
impressions of vast angles and stone surfaces--surfaces too great to
under another name; and because the noises in the hills had sounded,
But the present was no time to mourn, for almost at this instant a
JACK.
inquired in a shy and timid voice.
distant hautboy. In the garden-scene it had all the tremulous ecstasy
A PLAY
perhaps sprung from the unwholesome pasturage or the diseased fungi
yourself. You are much better than you pretend to be.”
on Professor Angell bearing
the years after Nahum's taking, and always they lacked the power to get
single book, so you can imagine how much he knows.
to affect us at all? Is it that we naturally conceive terror from
persistence that many could not sleep, and about 3 a. m. all the party
He passed out of the room and began the ascent, Basil Hallward
under oppression and whose silence is heard only of God; and not merely
in their churchgoing or their attendance at the various social events
flung the pieces away. How ugly it all was! And how horribly real
chief defect.”
dreams are older than brooding Tyre, or the contemplative Sphinx, or
more than one topic every three months. They have been very fortunate
glowed on the broad-planked floor where the rag carpet left it bare,
reside in.  There are lots of vulgar people live in Grosvenor Square, but
Lines of fright deepened on every face; and Armitage, shaken as he was,
round indignantly_.]
[Transcriber's note: This etext was produced from Weird Tales April
LORD GORING.  Is your carriage here, Robert?
because it was Candlemas, which people in Dunwich curiously observe
LORD CAVERSHAM.  No woman, plain or pretty, has any common sense at all,
"Nabby? Why, here she is!" was the surprised response of poor Nahum,
flew away with it in his beak over the roofs of the town.
noxious cult in Dunedin?
one, however, had been using the telescope at that instant. The
de Cappadoce qui est mon ennemi.  Peut-être à Rome il le crucifiera.  Il
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.
directly into the sky.
GWENDOLEN.
LORD GORING.  Robert, I swear to you on my honour that that lady is
“You are a very irritating person,” said the Rocket, “and very ill-bred.
of the soul. You are a wonderful creation. You know more than you think
the shrine on the _Alert_, is poignantly visible
inevitable. He jumped up, drew the screen hastily across the picture,
afraid of? He was not a schoolboy or a girl. It was absurd to be
mmell Angell, Professor Emeritus of Semitic
made him sleepy.
t his tale to Mrs.
understand. She could have married anybody she chose. Carlington was
JACK.
excellent reputation, and Johansen is described as a sober and
everyone knew from the account must be Nahum's, the darkness had been
town by the curving road on the south. I vaguely wished some clouds
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  The next one?
and clutched the paper containing the alternative ones he had not
himself and his daughter. There must have been prodigious reserves
and I had to go.
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Ah!  [_Il se tue et tombe entre Salomé et Iokanaan_.]
myself more of an artist. It was foolish of me, and yet I couldn’t help
When I went into the hills and vales to survey for the new reservoir
loafers at the bar. He has preached me as a dogma; to-night he will
the woods and fields, he had found some very curious things near the
“What nonsense, Dorian!” laughed his companion, and as the hare bounded
properly say that it could not be vividly visualized by anyone whose
kin make it multiply an' work.... Only them, the old uns as wants to
He shook his head.
to the central idea of their loathsome faith.
Lavinia was fond of wild and grandiose daydreams and singular
from its non-committal bulk. The crouching image with its cuttlefish
chose est tombé par terre.  J’ai entendu quelque chose tomber.  C’était
say, Mr. Otis himself. Mr. Otis was extremely fond of the young Duke
ALGERNON.
beaks; of the Sphinx, who is as old as the world itself, and lives in the
papers and collections of my uncle, failed in any way to identify this
appeared to shoot up from the black pit like a softened ray from a
I have nothing to do but to write cheques for her silly fads.”
watched them curiously. They moved like monstrous marionettes and made
is only with an old friend, so I can send him a wire to say that I am
Lavinia was one who would be apt to mutter such things, for she was a
CECIL GRAHAM.  Of course you are quite faithful to this woman you are in
“and as for believing things, I can believe anything, provided that it
colours, and plied the distaff among the women, and brought the Moon
James Vane bit his lip. “Watch over Sibyl, Mother,” he cried, “watch
about it so tediously. Come, I tell you. You have chattered enough
the portrait should bear the burden of his days, and he keep the
LADY BRACKNELL.
“Not look at my own work! You are not serious. Why shouldn’t I look at
pastured in the lot near the house, but toward the end of May the milk
For over two weeks Ammi saw nothing of Nahum; and then, worried about
with its monoliths and sepulchers, had sunk beneath the waves; and the
[_Enter_ MR. CECIL GRAHAM.]
the woods and fields, he had found some very curious things near the
Lady Bracknell: Miss Rose Leclercq.
father.  Third palm tree to the left, the usual palm tree.
having coal was that it enabled a gentleman to afford the decency of
modernity was that it put tragedy into the raiment of comedy, so that the
“I am afraid it is not Harry, Mr. Gray,” answered a shrill voice.
taken by something of that colour.
filled with disjointed scraps of ancient lore that Old Whateley had
BY
the leaded panes seemed to him like his own wasted resolutions and wild
curtain of flame, stood a great granite monolith some eight feet in
it is elsewhere.
hands and icy heart.  I bring him nothing.
is one of the best things in them.  However, in your case, Robert, a
abandoned again. The door swung listlessly open, and when Earl Sawyer
“Hush! Don’t say that. You have done enough evil in your life. My God!
night he slept a little
could feel even slightly inclined to treat the diary as a madman's
stir my curiosity. You simply produce no effect. I loved you because
said Lord Henry, sipping his wine.
was exactly as St. John tells us it was: [Greek text]--no more.
unplaceable colour left the well, it seemed to flow directly into the
[_These people enter as announced_.]
there is always sorrow.  It were wiser still to say that behind sorrow
themselves? My dear fellow, you forget that we are in the native land
visibly, and seemed again to mix hesitancy with their zeal. It was
were unable to find any visible disorder, but concluded after perplexed
the fact that now for the first time since my imprisonment I have a real
Pierce remarked that the fragment was growing smaller and burning the
“Yes, sir,” answered the gamekeeper.
casuality, something that calls for sympathy in others.
MISS PRISM.
T CHILTERN.  Thank you, Arthur, thank you.  But what is to be
LADY AGATHA.  [_Entering L._]  Yes, mamma.  [_Stands back of table L.C._]
the coincidence of the dream notes and odd cuttings collected by
together and watch in the gloom under one roof; but, in general there
[Enter Merriman.]
ALGERNON.
was dark, an' the rain was wipin' aout all tracks abaout as fast as
show him my white rabbits.’
Then the men, having reached a spot where the trees were thinner, came
Newport boat; falling suddenly, as witnesses said, after having been
on the eastern edge of Cold Spring Glen, and all agreed that they
LADY BASILDON.  [_Arching two pretty eyebrows_.]  Are you here?
“Where were you yesterday?”
characteristic of the anatomy and habits of squirrels and rabbits and
unchallenged or uneradicated.
compact,' the world itself is of the same substance.  I said in _Dorian
than Morgan's had been.
tourists. Two centuries ago, when talk of witch-blood, Satan-worship,
LORD GORING.  Everything is dangerous, my dear fellow.  If it wasn’t so,
desperately wanted; so at length he set out in person, shabby, dirty,
is true none the less, that for them living in freedom and idleness and
have said, the geometry of the place was all wrong. One could not be
Dorian.
night in the cabin whilst Johansen was wandering deliriously.
it, I opened it.  I—read it.
ight,” answered Mr. Erskine. “I myself used to have
as soon as Wilbur was born, when one of the many tool-sheds had been
which was too late.
was to recreate life and to save it from that harsh uncomely puritanism
the little mouth_, _with its parted lips_, _is expectant_, _like the
a type, at once slightly affected and slightly ill-mannered, which I
du sang? . . . Mais, peut-être est-ce la saveur de l’amour.  On dit que
MRS. CHEVELEY, _who accompanies her_, _is tall and rather slight_.  _Lips
familiarity with the
mankind, and linked to black gulfs of essence and entity that stretch
[Picture: Decorative graphic of children in garden]
The man paused, and another of the crowd spoke.
was a sort of heavy dragging, and a most detestably sticky noise as
them, I need hardly say.  But I am told that nowadays country society is
position of everything else seemed fantasmally variable.
gone, too, and the wise men talked of the strange stone's affinity
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Cela me semble absolument ridicule.
SECOND SOLDAT.  Et le troisième qui est un vin sicilien.
subtlety. It seemed to him that in some mysterious way their lives had
would you wish the ceremony performed?
stupid. My God! how mad I was to love you! What a fool I have been! You
times he seemed near daylight, only to be set back by some unforeseen
what it might not have done at that last moment, and with its seemingly
de celui qui sera le Sauveur du monde.
at regular intervals with the flame-girt monolith as a center hung,
Eagerly clearing the sheet of its precious contents, I scanned the item
current of vapour had brushed past him--and then poor Nahum had been
MERRIMAN.
Prince looked quite dull and grey.
portable souvenir to bear away.
was taken away--she was being drained of something--something was
Through all the years Wilbur had treated his half-deformed albino
the matter. He see enough, I tell ye, Mis' Corey! This dun't mean no
is a feeling that I have always cultivated.  But none of you have any
degree, that I wanted to eat of the fruit of all the trees in the garden
in the midnight air. Finally he reached the corner of the passage that
post-facto diary--and strove to recall day by day that last awful
to things, for those who wear soft raiment and live in kings' houses.
Suddenly the painter appeared at the door of the studio and made
you were marvellous, because you had genius and intellect, because you
his room. It sounded like the clank of metal, and seemed to be coming
Voodoo orgies multiply in Haiti, and African outposts report ominous
that makes me put up with them at all.
everything in the world that a man can want. There is no one who would
LORD GORING.  You mustn’t do that.  It would be vile, horrible, infamous.
such a proposition!
completely shattered, and he started at the slightest noise. For five
James Vane stood on the pavement in horror. He was trembling from head
some vague fear, he heard still further sounds below.
name was Ernest. You are the most earnest-looking person I ever saw in
so often touched to brighter gold the waving wonder of its hair? The
It isn’t. It is a great truth. It accounts for the extraordinary number
the raucous, creepily insistent rhythms of stridently piping bullfrogs.
They’re looking at us. What effrontery!
night, Miss Chiltern.  So simple and . . . suitable.
LORD DARLINGTON.  No, she does not!
It was a simple, rambling thing--a naive sailor's effort at a
troubled romantic marbles of Michael Angelo, pointed architecture, and
[_Exit_ PARKER.]
total; so that nothing was left to do but go back to the laboratory and
JACK and ALGERNON [Speaking together.] Our Christian names! Is that
didn’t know I would want one so soon.
his grandfather had done upstairs four years before. He was living
after I had ceased to care for them, or they to care for me.
[Algernon goes forward to meet them. Enter Lady Bracknell and
society, into your home, to shame you before every one.  I offer you my
perhaps no less.  He was the denial as well as the affirmation of
enormously.
pretence of being my brother.
things.
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Smiling_.]  Why, Duchess?
completely refuted in four of my unpublished sermons. However, as your
sympathy; and my uncle showed some sharpness in replying, for the
into hysterics when he merely grinned at them through the curtains on
room.  It is not pleasant to see one’s own butler, who has been with one
What it suggested, however, was of portentous significance to my
“Ask Mr.
the Whateleys.... It was a octopus, centipede, spider kind o' thing,
ht to use that word.  I
before.
aristocracy?
_Venetian red hair_, _aquiline nose_, _and long throat_.  _Rouge
strange conjectures.
“Yes,” echoed Dorian, leaning back in his chair and looking at Lord
At the gate of the Castle the Prince was waiting to receive her.  He had
and finely wrought temperaments it is always so. Their strong passions
great public appearance she spun round nineteen times before she went
Child, you know how anxious your guardian is that you should improve
might like me less than you do, and you would certainly laugh at me. I
prodigiously far-flung body of inquiries amongst nearly all the friends
itself, four monstrous sets of fragments--two from the house and two
contemplation of the spectacle of life with appropriate emotions.'  They
one joy one never tired of, and that in our century only the rich
From that time till his rescue on the 12th, the man remembers
rmulæ he had memorized,
ignorant as they were, the creatures held with surprizing consistency
drink the champagne? I ask merely for information.
of death; and three times have I been tried.  The first time I left the
gone to. I passed a dreadful evening, half afraid that one tragedy
they all told me to pay no attention to old Ammi Pierce's crazy tales,
found exceedingly puzzling, and which I felt much averse from showing
arcana of Trithemius' _Poligraphia_, Giambattista Porta's _De Furtivis
[_Enter_ MASON.]
horrible trouble, I can’t make out. You seem to me to be perfectly
lone creature given to wandering amidst thunderstorms in the hills and
to passages in such mythological and anthropological source-books
que même les jeunes hommes ne doivent regarder qu’après avoir été
the Rising Sun Lubricator, and throw pillows at his head! It was quite
was out of the soil. His wife now had spells of terrific screaming,
“I hope you will always be very happy, Dorian,” said Hallward, “but I
MRS. ERLYNNE.
the cavernous fireplace was unlit and empty, with a cloud of soot
with your guarded threshold. _Yog-Sothoth_ is the key to the gate,
fresh. His card bore the name of Henry Anthony Wilcox, and my uncle
unknown father.
every feeling, expression to every thought, reality to every dream—I
master of himself can end a sorrow as easily as he can invent a
Catholic communion, and certainly the Roman ritual had always a great
CECIL GRAHAM.  None!  That is why it interests me.  My own business
“‘What a delightful time I shall have in my garden,’ he said, and he went
They shunned people now, and when school opened the boys did not go.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh! pray don’t.  One should never give a woman anything
“They don’t last, I am told,” muttered his uncle.
ALGERNON.
the colour of life, but one should never remember its details. Details
whose utter strangeness and air of genuinely abysmal antiquity hinted
that has made him submit to—oh! call it what you like, tyranny, threats,
and at once conceded from the specimens scattered about that his genius
pretty.  [_Takes up fan_.]  I shall ask Margaret to give it to me.
“All right. The Bristol at eight o’clock; and I will get Basil.”
anthropoid outline, but with an octopuslike head whose face was a mass
life out. He said it must be some'at growed from a round ball like one
red, and was crushed for ever
fashioned into a marvellous type, at any rate.
casuality, something that calls for sympathy in others.  They speak of
PARKER.  Mr. Cecil Graham!
that gorgeous array of specious lusciousness not one single jot was
treated is purely spiritual--that it is strong in proportion as it
my entreaties—against my commands.  Oh! the house is tainted for me!  I
that she can’t wear in the evening.
That night everyone went home, and every house and barn was barricaded
You are nothing of the kind, sir. And now, as regards Algernon! . . .
herself now to the pleasures of French fiction, French cookery, and
was declaimed with the painful precision of a schoolgirl who has been
lineally descended. Accordingly, he made arrangements for appearing to
But before many questions were asked, it became manifest that something
anywhere. As she was in the habit of going out to the garden every
family too, seemed to have grown taciturn; and were far from steady
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.  [_Exit_.]
protagonist raises the entire scheme to a height of romantic art from
Here the first part of the manuscript ended, but references to certain
of the bars came the sound of horrible laughter. In others, drunkards
me about Henry Ashton and young Perth. Did
on it. But how are you going to begin?”
DUMBY.  [_Coughs slightly and smooths his hair_.]  She’s a Mrs. Erlynne.
MRS. CHEVELEY.
music-room, Mademoiselle?
globule embedded in the substance. The colour, which resembled some
LORD DARLINGTON.
[Cuts a very large slice of cake, and puts it on the tray.] Hand that
get up on the platform,
Well, will you go if I change my clothes?
pain.
would probably never be allowed to know the entrancing pleasure of a
he passed. At the end of the hall hung a tattered green curtain that
ngle of glens and
man’s appetites, quickened into force each trembling nerve and fibre.
scrape some day.
LORD WINDERMERE.  Thanks!  [_Sits down_.]
and bearded face gave all the impressions of maturity, a second great
and college chemists could be interested enough to analyze the water
he had thought of peering behind the screen. The man was quite
under the table eat of the crumbs that the children let fall.  Most
MRS. ERLYNNE.  For my daughter’s ball—yes.
asylums that only a miracle can have stopped the medical fraternity
Yes; but this isn’t your cigarette case. This cigarette case is a
discoloration behind it.
one must be admitted till the police or medical examiner came. He was
me.  You think I am a Puritan, I suppose?  Well, I have something of the
laughed round it as of old.
in gold.” Catherine de Medicis had a mourning-bed made for her of black
with her mother, about half-past twelve or so, she said she had
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Ah! the strength of women comes from the fact that
runner.  They loved the trees for the shadow that they cast, and the
But he must be very good, and not lose his temper, or spend his money
murdered wife were blazoned in azure and gold. On and on he glided, like
my cell.
he accepted that as a fact about me and realised it to the full I could
her throat to hide the mark of five fingers burnt upon her white skin,
he
terrible sort than they had ever known; and some of their women and
something dark in the corner, and upon seeing it more clearly he
e is now a wide gulf, but between art and myself there
intimate with him appeared, after a time, to shun him. Women who had
The hero of the wonderful novel that had so influenced his life had
these years.
common to two hellish rituals so many worlds of distance apart. What,
require tea!
HÉRODE.  Je resterai!  Manassé, mettez des tapis là.  Allumez des
and at once conceded from the specimens scattered about that his genius
seen a city before, but had no thought save to find his way to the
ured the young man.
shrivelled to a handsbreadth, and everywhere I turn my name is written on
any definite structure or building, he dwells only on the broad
deep waters, full of the one primal mystery through which not even
the meteor had poisoned the soil, but the illness of person and animals
bitterly.  We men and women are not made to accept such sacrifices from
that it was all true. I was Rosalind one night and Portia the other.
Adrian Singleton writes his friend’s name across a bill, am I his
town by the curving road on the south.
had heard at the theatre, a whispered sneer that had reached his ears
sins, are borrowed. He becomes an echo of some one else’s music, an
into the mud.
was one of the decadent Whateleys, a somewhat deformed, unattractive
they all passed downstairs.
went into the well after it had done with poor Nahum....
ity than it is for
Heaven—[Jack puts out his hand to take a sandwich.
LADY WINDERMERE.  But you?
That night there was a thunderstorm, and when the professors went out
It is a great deal too much excitement for any son.  I hope to goodness
On March 23rd, the manuscript continued, Wilcox failed to appear; and
JACK.
disregarding the absurd improbability of such a theory,
[Severely.] Cake or bread and butter?
[To Gwendolen.] Dear me, you are smart!
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Cet homme fait de véritables miracles.  Ainsi, à
curiously at him. What of George Willoughby, with his powdered hair and
Sort de l’eau son corps rose et blanc.
touched the back edge of the block, the seat occupied the center,
JACK.
that is made to hold so much can hold so much and no more, though all the
debate on the Argentine Canal is to begin at eleven.  [_A chair falls in
fantastic dusk was never terrible till the strange days. Then there
w, the value of an idea has nothing whatsoever to do with
left behind a hollow spherical space about three inches across, and all
t try to navigate after the first
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Pourquoi discutent-ils sur leur religion?
with the Canterville ghost, and was found the next morning lying on the
spent a great deal of his time working in the laboratory, and had taken
broken, and a great avenue had been gouged in the precipice-hanging
you should have told her years ago.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Hurriedly_.]  Think as you like about me—say what you
“Death is a great price to pay for a red rose,” cried the Nightingale,
My duty as a gentleman has never interfered with my pleasures in the
his buttonhole.] You are the prettiest girl I ever saw.
them was Sir Henry Ashton’s uncle.
fell right down on him, wetting him to the skin, and just missing his
[_Exit C._]
“With their ages, Lady Narborough?” asked Dorian.
prevent us from carrying them out.”
“He is not the man I am looking for,” he answered, “and I want no man’s
FIRST ACT
appointment.”
him, and there wasn’t a girl in London at the time who wasn’t after
But they don’t seem to know what thrift is.
and Zenas were both there, in part, though the vestiges were mainly
“It can only be the next world. This world and I are on excellent
Surely such a utilitarian occupation as the
grey and brittle. Even the flowers whose hues had been so strange
him.
fade! ... And Basil? From a psychological point of view, how
copy from an aged _angekok_ or wizard-priest, expressing the sounds in
voir . . . Emportez-le . . . [_On emporte le cadavre_.]  Il fait froid
immediately from this moment. On this point, as indeed on all points, I
silence, for he made no other observation, became intolerable to her.
Harry, how I loved her once!
proper sphere for the man. And certainly once a man begins to neglect
“Marrying Sibyl Vane!” cried Lord Henry, standing up and looking at him
SECOND SOLDAT.  Je ne sais pas.  Ils le font toujours . . . Ainsi les
they started on their drive in high spirits. It was a lovely July
the more heartless is, that he was perfectly well aware from the first
then I can do what I like. I have been right, Basil, haven’t I, to take
entreaties of the little Duke, ordered them all to bed, saying that
Yes, Aunt Augusta!
cheeks, and her dry lips twitched with a spasm of pain. Sybil rushed to
such a mental revolution as I had never before known, I
not a matter of old legendry at all, but something within the lifetime
nameless place for some nameless purpose.
My own one, I have never loved any one in the world but you.
dreams whose mere memory might stain your cheek with shame—”
LE SECOND NAZARÉEN.  Il a quitté la Samarie il y a quelques jours.  Moi,
Armitage, with Rice and Morgan, started to walk in the direction
of having taken part in some strange tragedy came to him once or twice,
who hate one are much more interesting. Besides, the stuff is better.”
realized the dreams of great poets and gave shape and substance to the
theatre, with great flaring gas-jets and gaudy play-bills. A hideous
fall, he soon made clear; and again I strove to think of some way in
CECILY.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Gently_.]  A secret?  Between whom?
“Yes, it was very curious. I don’t know what made me say it. Some whim,
GWENDOLEN.
some importance.
when the Arkham party detoured radically from the swath. He told the
felt a little disappointed that he had not joined the group.
mother,” she murmured; “I had none.”
Lady Bracknell.]
determined to know nothing of them, I was forced to taste each of them in
of open secret that Baron Arnheim left her the greater portion of his
HÉRODE.  Moi aussi.  C’est ridicule de se tuer.
be no trace of him found here. You, Alan, you must change him, and
his heart was beating itself to death in some empty hollow.
outbreaks of group folly or mania in the spring of 1925.
done somehow.  Ah!
LORD DARLINGTON.  Because I think that life is far too important a thing
jagged edge of some black cleft of precipice. He knew what was waiting
been in the barn. Ammi and his wife consoled the stricken man as best
Everything is quite ready for the christenings.
Gorges and ravines of problematical depth intersect the way, and the
Then he flew back and told the Prince what he had seen.
avait d’autres.  Je suis sûr qu’il y en avait d’autres, quoique je ne les
CECILY.
idea of its nature. It seemed to be a sort of monster, or symbol
I had no idea there were any flowers in the country.
l’escalier_.]
night in the cabin whilst Johansen was wandering deliriously.
in gold.” Catherine de Medicis had a mourning-bed made for her of black
to bring me his letters.  It would be impossible.  Oh! why don’t you tell
He would write of what he knew before death came, but his wife must not
a matter of business; told him of my surveying, and asked vague
and more in troubling my sleep.
ius
Salem in 1692, have kept somewhat above the general level of decay;
[Turns to Jack.] Apprised, sir, of my daughter’s sudden flight by her
tedious if it were either, and modern literature a complete
“You refuse?”
magnetism, and slight luminosity, cooling slightly in powerful acids,
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Pardon, princesse, mais si vous n’y retourniez pas il
astounded.] I mean, of course, you are continually christening, aren’t
that it very slowly and perceptibly moved as it continued to crumble.
book-case—that was all that it seemed to contain, besides a chair and a
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Starting_.]  What do you mean?
* * * * *
portrait leering in the sunlight. On the floor in front of it the torn
quand ils crient, et quand ils se pavanent la lune se montre au ciel.
broke at once into blossom, and the birds came and sang on it, and the
MABEL CHILTERN.  Well, my duty is a thing I never do, on principle.  It
[LADY AGATHA _and_ MR. HOPPER _cross and exit on terrace L.U.E._]
and not nearly so natural.
ROSALIE.  Did your ladyship ring for me?
Ordonnez qu’il se taise.
soul to their shallow prying eyes. My heart shall never be put under
Renan thought so.  But now we know that the Galilean peasants, like the
sweet by the myrrh and cassia of many tears.
“Will you come away with me?” he said finally to her; but the Reed shook
to attract attention.
course by the great storm of March 1st, and on March 22d, in S.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_After a pause_.]  Of course I had private
whom he had told some of his conjectures and misgivings; and these two
them, and when Nahum opened the stable door they all bolted out like
burns an' sucks ... it come from some place whar things ain't as they
It was the coroner, seated near a window overlooking the yard, who
running about the place like rabbits.  But we never took any notice of
ar a
published in the Court Gazette.
the last ball of the season?
hand in turn. “I have never been so
Armitage, stocky, iron-gray Professor Rice, and lean, youngish Dr.
minuteness; and studied with almost frantic intensity the bas-relief
Do not ask me for my opinion. I do not know--that is all. There was no
grandfather in this respect was thought very notable until the horror
flagging quest; and I carefully tore it out for immediate action. It
"You have always had that, Cecil."
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_C._]  I am not going to give you any details about
a deepening of the greenish tinge, whilst in the tail it was manifest
and poultry were dead and the dogs had run away. These dogs, three
all your adoration, worthy of the adoration of the world. This marriage
fortunate that you were not thought of at the time. As it was, our
some vile creature, who might degrade his nature and ruin his
was conscious that a great opportunity had been wasted. She consoled
Don’t make any terrible mistake, Lady Chiltern.  A woman who can keep a
and had wondered why Nahum had called it so large the day before. It
unfortunate young man his brother.
steep incline allowed. Only these--nothing more. Then everyone noticed
he had for everything connected with the service of the Church. In the
comply with her request. For my own part, I confess I am a good deal
When we meet—we do meet occasionally, when we dine out together, or go
Je ne permets pas qu’on ressuscite les morts.  Il faut chercher cet homme
scientific principles as the best specimen he could find of a modern
LORD GORING.  Well, I hope she hasn’t changed her mind.  It’s nearly
shall see it yourself, to-night!” he cried, seizing a lamp from the
ALGERNON.
nothing but shadows, and I thought them real. You came—oh, my beautiful
rmulæ he had memorized,
Dorian Gray glanced at the picture, and suddenly an uncontrollable
had been no wild legends at all since the witch trials, and even then
and to follow the narrow road around the base of the hills and across
white-whiskered creature who, like so many of his
in itself is fame, on the continent.
had uttered a mad wish that he himself might remain young, and the
d the darkness coming over
attendants with him, each of whom carried a lighted torch at the end of a
bows to her sweetly in turn_, _and sails into the room_.]
of the countryside. For this reserve or melancholy no cause could be
subconscious residuum had influenced his art profoundly, and he showed
by the American Archeological Society, but there was one box which I
the end he could do nothing but drive it into the yard while the men
home again, as if he feared the results of being away long.
supper. The other women are very charming. They commit one mistake,
first is, of course, intensely fascinating, for I see in Christ not
this time the restoration of the house was finished, and those who
divided into two sections, the first of which was headed "1925--Dream
church, but there is no difficulty at all about sleeping. Why, even
or phase of entity from which it had once fallen, vigintillions of eons
are engaged. Her mother is perfectly unbearable. Never met such a
They make one believe in the reality of the things we all play with,
resolutions—that they are always made too late. Mine certainly were.”
LORD DARLINGTON.  You have dropped your fan, Lady Windermere.  [_Picks it
“My dear Harry, we either lunch or sup together every day, and I have
LORD GORING.  I should make you a very bad husband.
letter—she stole it, when or how, I don’t know.
winders. An' then ... an' then...."
LADY PLYMDALE.  Oh, you mustn’t dream of such a thing.  It’s most
off to Paris by the midnight train, and I particularly wanted to see
sides bulging perilously beneath low gambrel roofs.
CHASUBLE.
time their eery cries in unison with the sufferer's struggling breath.
LORD GORING.  Of course I shan’t.  By the way, Lady Chiltern, there is no
might be followed by another. I think you might have telegraphed for me
Inspector Legrasse was scarcely prepared for the sensation which his
“Yes, she will. She has not merely art, consummate art-instinct, in
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Sir Robert, I will be quite frank with you.  I want you
LORD GORING.  [_Genially_.]  Not yet: but I hope to be before lunch-time.
did this letter arrive?
workmanship, made of dull silver inlaid with arabesques of burnished
over Chapman's Brook, and it was blind groping from there to the open
This man, after recovering his senses, told an exceedingly strange
LADY BRACKNELL.
the meteor had poisoned the soil, but the illness of person and animals
I don’t quite like women who are interested in philanthropic work. I
they troubled his imagination in the day. The Renaissance knew of
pick them up. But I don’t want to interrupt you.
body swathed in Egyptian linen with costly spices and perfumes as though
her size may be, should call her own nephew her uncle, I can’t quite
Canterville Chase at about eleven o'clock at night. The hearse was drawn
think on the whole that Grosvenor Square would be a more healthy place to
Good-bye!” and he flew away.
Meanwhile no more must be told. There was a secret which even torture
swam up to him.
really sorry for all that he had done, and he gave me this box of
The next morning, when the Otis family met at breakfast, they discussed
some very important subject.  But they took no
bold flight, for the reaction had taken something out of his soul.
LADY WINDERMERE _clutches at her fan_,
remember myself once—But it is no matter now.  Romance is a thing of the
and something terrible--though I know not in what proportion--still
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Hérodias a versé à boire au tétrarque.
fine linen, and the soul within me sick with hate.
Verde Islands, gave a coloring of voodooism to the heterogeneous cult.
finding it a thing of balefully exquisite workmanship, and with the
LADY BRACKNELL.
ree men seemed to rouse the dying thing, it
next day he sat on the Prince’s shoulder, and told him stories of
Examining one day the reserve specimens roughly set on the storage
LORD GORING.  I should have thought it was the husbands who were
An open window showed black and gaping in the moonlight. What had come
“I knew I should create a great sensation,” gasped the Rocket, and he
_Un grand nuage noir passe à travers la lune et la cache complètement_.
me help you on with your cloak, father.
desert of the South and the sunken isles of Ocean hold stones
terrible than those which had reduced the group of natives to a state
ALGERNON.
LADY BASILDON.  [_Emphatically_.]  Yes, always to others, have we not?
malheur.
minutes the resultant din and chaos were beyond description. Wild
cried the Fire-balloon, as he soared away, dropping tiny blue sparks.
er alter her views.
“running water,” and “evening dew”; strange figured cloths from Java;
in fact.
and climbed the creaking stairs to the attic. It was very close and
turquoise-stones, and a skull-cap _parsemé_ with pearls. Henry II.
to look after his wife and Zenas if they survived him. It must all be a
Gray was the type of everything that is wonderful and fascinating in
Cha'ncey he says they leads off into the medders, whar a great swath
When Mr. Hiram B. Otis, the American Minister, bought Canterville Chase,
pleased about it.
LORD GORING.  You can trust him?
uld look long at them, and even the medical examiner
you both you have made me hate the finest piece of work I have ever
anything else. But you never sat better. You were perfectly still. And
few minutes he became absorbed. It was the strangest book that he had
surface seemed to be quite undisturbed and as he had left it. It was
At the time Nahum thought the lantern and pail were gone too; but when
matrimonial.  People are either hunting for husbands, or hiding from
know what it is. Don’t look so sulky. Surely you should be glad to
was ever admitted to the closely-boarded upper story. This chamber
the cavernous fireplace was unlit and empty, with a cloud of soot
forty now. This one is little more than a boy. Thank God, I have not
that have lost the note of joy, eyes that are blinded by tears, chill
of tall stone pillars with which most of them are crowned.
“Ah! I was waiting for you to call me Dorian.”
+------------------------------------+
annoying in the way he proposes.
if he and Basil Hallward had ever met, and, if so, what they had
That’s not quite the same thing. In fact the two things rarely go
[Merriman goes off.]
CECILY.
deathless Chinamen had told him, were still to be found as Cyclopean
as stoutly as possible. Needless to say, no cattle were allowed to
LORD GORING.  I think it is better that he should know the exact truth.
Your uncle would have to dine upstairs. Fortunately he is accustomed to
to me.
as soon as Wilbur was born, when one of the many tool-sheds had been
dreams; for only thus could Their language reach the fleshly minds of
JACK.
village one may still spy the cellar walls and chimney of the ancient
such grass and herbage as had not been wholly changed to lethal grey
aring
Your brother is a little off colour, isn’t he, dear Jack? You won’t be
hundred times, and you have no right whatsoever to read what is written
some day we'd hear a child o' Lavinny's a-callin' its father's name on
us regarderai, Narraboth, je vous
imaginative. Even as things were, his mind was bent ever so slightly;
The lad listened sulkily to her and made no answer. He was heart-sick
y always speak at the same time as other
For us there is only one season, the season of sorrow.  The very sun and
come from Aylesbury that morning in response to the first telephone
So they piled the faggots together, and put the Rocket on top, and lit
“You are too charming to go in for philanthropy, Mr. Gray—far too
the whole world for me. That is always a dreadful moment. It fills one
throbbing cores of flame.
says.”
“Order! order!” cried out a Cracker.  He was something of a politician,
r Rice declares that he wholly
_Seventh Impression_    _March_ 1910
waterfront. It was owned by a curious group of half-castes whose
was an exquisite poison in the air. I had a passion for sensations....
nothing whatsoever to do with me.
the children’s heads.  The birds were flying about and twittering with
that was such a part of his life, and was also afraid that during his
wander about the house as long as she was harmless to herself and
hysterical Levantines on the night of March 22-23. The west of Ireland,
Of late I have been studying with diligence the four prose poems about
“He must have a truly romantic nature,” said the Catherine Wheel, “for he
eyes that cryptic vestige of the fathomless gulfs outside; that lone,
he was anxious to be away.
waterfront. It was owned by a curious group of half-castes whose
and a woman’s first duty in life is to her dressmaker, isn’t it?  What
“Somebody must listen,” answered the Frog, “and I like to do all the
JACK.
been with him part of the time, and had gone wild over Tintoret. Poor
But pray go on with your story.  I like the Miller immensely.  I have all
specimen. The proportions of its body seemed slightly altered in a
keenly affected. Upon retiring, he had had an unprecedented dream of
Dorian. But I am much obliged for the compliment, all the same. And now
[Rising and going to her.] I am very fond of you, Cecily; I have liked
various keys on the ring he had taken. The third key proved the right
chrome-yellow, and finally I had nothing left but indigo and Chinese
on’t know what
_Sixth Impression_      _March_ 1908
there.
to see it was to die. But it made men dream, and so they knew enough to
Lady Margaret Devereux. I want you to tell me about his mother. What
moonlit clouds; scratching impotently in the noxious air as if jerked
the coincidence of the dream notes and odd cuttings collected by
Florentine cabinet, made out of ebony and inlaid with ivory and blue
the club to look for you, when I met you. You see, I shan’t have any
this house at once.  You don’t know what it is to fall into the pit, to
or midwife presided at his coming.
MISS PRISM.
he could not stand stupid people, especially those who are made stupid by
cruelty round the warped lips.
with a brooding fear he dared not even mention for many years to come.
LE JEUNE SYRIEN, capitaine de la garde
his story to the stars, and now I see him.  His hair is dark as the
could be cured only by the spectacle of death, and who had a passion
a sitting-room. It must be removed at once."
before morals!
“You have rightly chosen,” said God, “for in my garden of Paradise this
image prove it?--but that shape was not made of matter. When the stars
UN JUIF.
of the results of a mere chance which fixed my eye on a certain stray
what you had done?
drunk the water--it got strong on 'em--it come from beyond, whar things
county, telling them to look out for a little girl who had been
churchyard groan, just as the twins had come up to him.
began to boom from the clock tower, and when the last stroke sounded
distressed about it.  Only last night at dear Lady Jansen’s every one was
DES JUIFS, DES NAZARÉENS, etc.
LORD GORING.  Quite sharp.  But don’t bring Mr. Trafford.
ALGERNON.
blinds, the face appeared to him to be a little changed. The expression
But is there any particular infant in whom you are interested, Mr.
merveilleuses.  Quand on les porte sur le front on peut imaginer des
find that, ultimately, there are only two kinds of women, the plain and
g of that coloured vapour in the attic room, but
the glen; and as they left, had little expectancy of ever seeing the
his one-sided way, and was quietly known by correspondence to many
of what Legrasse had learned of the cult, of a sensitive young man
position of everything else seemed fantasmally variable.
was not the secret--that was never spoken aloud, only whispered. The
homogeneous.
new manner in art, an entirely new mode of style.
Thank you. You may! [Offers her cheek.]
table to-night. How absurdly nervous you are, my dear fellow! You must
, a collar of gold roses set with
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
suicide. Now they have got the mysterious disappearance of an artist.
leave Mrs. Cheveley in your charge and call back for her in a quarter of
different cast, and resembling Sanskrit more than anything else. The
voice, “to see your soul. But only God can do that.”
bore a seraph’s head in gold-thread raised work. The orphreys were
parrot noses. She spoke of me as her dearest friend. I had only met her
Street all profess complete bafflement, and which the survivor says
the crucifixion of the Innocent One before the eyes of his mother and of
for proposing.  He always proposes on Tuesdays and Thursdays, during the
like the men from the college last year says the meteor stone was.
not help being frightened by the
connections. I visited New Orleans, talked with Legrasse and others
must come and sit to me yourself again. I can’t get on without you.”
*       *       *       *       *
flowers.’
of style. They affect us just as vulgarity affects us. They give us an
LORD DARLINGTON.  Yes, I love you!  You are more to me than anything in
her six months ago.  Till then, I never knew of her existence.
eastward, soon losing my way in a labyrinth of grimy streets and black
and I know that panic would have broken loose had they been able to
accomplishment for which he was justly renowned, and to which the family
JACK.
Village that he thought he heard a horse stamping on that floor above.
DUMBY.  Sensible woman, Lady Windermere.  Lots of wives would have
and falling to pieces before they died, and their eyes and muzzles
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Considerably taken aback_.]  What does this mean, sir?
show it to you. [_Goes across to the table_.]
anything more definite than rock and ooze and weed was seen. Each
"SUDDENLY THERE LEAP
importance, too.  [_Sits down with him at L. table_.]
out momentarily.
pourrait arriver un malheur.
first chance you have, slip out, if you ever get a chance!
ungrateful and unkind of me to pull so long a face that when my friends
Verde Islands, gave a coloring of voodooism to the heterogeneous cult.
them.
But Hallward had seen him. Dorian heard him first stopping on the
breathing that told of an end not far off. The shapeless albino
The loungers reflected, thinking of the door and runway, and of
and they gouged rather than chipped a specimen to take back to the
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
and fat, and white; and hideous laughter seemed to have writhed its
social position, and determined to visit the insolent young Etonians the
sits with_ LADY WINDERMERE.]  Agatha, darling!
* * * * *
unjust to me.  I didn’t go to taunt Gertrude at all.  I had no idea of
moi.  Je ne suis pas digne même de délier la courroie de ses sandales.
“Give me a red rose,” she cried, “and I will sing you my sweetest song.”
bit. I thought her shallow. Suddenly something happened that made me
questions about the district. He was far brighter and more educated
any more.  They are a damaged lot.  Too much is known about them.  You
idols which the Great Ones showed them; idols brought in dim eras
“I am charmed, my love, quite charmed,” said Lord Henry, elevating his
fresh.
LORD WINDERMERE.  How hard good women are!
is here ... one o' them professors said so ... he was right ... look
GWENDOLEN.
hat if I ever
just such weather as he loved. His plan of action was this. He was to
LADY MARKBY.  [_Genially unconscious_.]  Yellow is a gayer colour, is it
suppose. I should think it very unkind if you didn’t.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Yes: he knew men and cities well, like the old
That is very generous of you, Lady Bracknell. My own decision, however,
ACT II.       _Drawing-room in Lord Windermere’s
They say the mental influences are very bad, too; numbers went queer in
Yet they felt that the true test of any Juliet is the balcony scene of
made clear during certain subsequent investigations. Late at night the
nd your career, and I have got your letter, too.
Algy! Can’t you recollect what our father’s Christian name was?
as if some vital element of perspective or chiaroscuro were awry. I did
introduce myself. I know you quite well by your photographs. I think my
CECILY.
“It is nothing to me. I don’t require you,” said Campbell coldly.
soon woke out of a tangle of nightmares almost as hideous as the truths
night.
be a rudimentary eye; whilst in lieu of a tail there depended a kind of
only in the features of those They have begotten on mankind_; and
good-night, Margaret.  I’m afraid it’s the old, old story, dear.
the seat at the end of the garden.
admiration for stupidity.  It is a sort of fellow-feeling, I suppose.
“I never tilt against beauty,” he said, with a wave of his hand.
faint, malign odor about the village street, as of the massed mold and
education: people who are full of opinions not one of which they even
of none.
JACK.
heard_.  _The entrance on the left leads to other reception-rooms_.  MRS.
"Inbreeding?" Armitage muttered half aloud to himself. "Great God, what
“Certainly, Lady Narborough.”
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Thrusting him back with outstretched hands_.]  No,
had come from the stars, and had brought Their images with Them."
extraordinaires.  J’ai un collier de perles à quatre rangs.  On dirait
the housemaids made him give up his fearful vigil, and he stalked back
nighted woods like pestilential tempests from the gulfs of hell. Now
than anything else in the world. Tell me more about Mr. Dorian Gray.
made clear during certain subsequent investigations. Late at night the
haunted by an intolerable sense of disgrace, and that those things that
JACK.
ent the note down by my own man.”
and very wicked cults ever try to. There was some of it in Wilbur
sufficient to entitle me to his manuscript, I bore the document away
cards, invitations to dinner, tickets for private views, programmes of
pains.  At present you have only the practice of friendship; some day you
mirrors get back their mimic life. The flameless tapers stand where we
'flower-like lives.'  He fixed the phrase.
grandfather in this respect was thought very notable until the horror
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Ah! we know your value, Mr. Hopper.  We wish there
How clearly he recalled those dying words of Nahum's--"can't git
About 1923, when Wilbur was a boy of ten whose mind, voice, stature,
It is said that passion makes one think in a circle.
ive myself, I deposited the manuscript in the basinette, and
from traditional breaks in the phrase
LADY WINDERMERE.  You are mad!  [_Rises_.]
fellow, why? Have you any reason? What odd chaps you painters are! You
threshold, I shall strike her across the face with it.
Dites-leur de se taire.
ccx074@pglaf.org.  Note that later editions of De Profundis contained
Dites-moi.  Quoi que cela puisse être on vous le donnera.  Mes trésors
felt the full force of that earthquake-born tempest which must have
words_, _and sees to whom they are addressed_.  _He grows deadly pale_.]
in a moment of patriotism, which he never ceased to regret, was a
you, Margaret.
frenziedly over endless vistas of green-crusted rock to the boat,
subjects. It’s one’s duty to do so. And as a high moral tone can hardly
“What are you two talking about?” said Lord Henry, strolling over to
you are found in a man’s rooms—you are disgraced before every one.
their shame, but he was unchanged. No winter marred his face or stained
others, where the unknown colour had melted into the Milky Way. But his
fault that this terrible tragedy has prevented my doing what was right.
paupières dorées?  Je ne sais pas qui c’est.  Je ne veux pas le savoir.
Oh no. [Puts her hand over it.] You see, it is simply a very young
closely locked barrier. For what could be the meaning of the queer clay
rest them, if there be any rest in the universe. They were Donovan,
wich is indeed ridiculously old--older by
through Carrier's mowin' an' the timber-lot beyont. That comes aout on
Our Auckland correspondent gives the _Emma_ and her crew an
at all. Just ooze and bubbles and the feeling of something lurking
of the Argentine scheme.  You made your own fortune out of one canal.
and below was only a darkness to which the men dared not return, and
selfish because it derived no particular benefit from him, but who was
es share in the feelings suitable
little of the Gospels, a dozen verses taken by chance anywhere.  It is a
looking like a beautiful caged thing. He took long stealthy strides.
and wonder growing grave in his darkening eyes.
will set to work at my barn this very day.’
shelter from the increasing rainfall beneath one of the few undestroyed
wonderful beginning!'  It may really be so.  It may become so.
good for me.  It will force on me the necessity of again asserting myself
“He won’t like you the better for keeping your promises. He always
dusty grey desert remained, nor has anything ever grown there since.
said.
They trailed off into nothingness as the whippoorwills shrieked in
JACK.
HÉRODIAS.  Qu’est-ce que cela fait?  Vous savez bien que c’est moi qu’il
show what was left down there at Nahum's.
Of course I will, darling. How long you have been about it! I am afraid
to her. She is to be my wife.”
scattered plasticity of that nameless sky-spawn was nebulously
LORD GORING.  And you?
the one, I feel certain, that pleases them most.  I saw R--- for an hour
visit of condolence, I shan’t stay long.
you’ve been twice divorced and once married.  It seems so much more
are fastened to this pedestal and I cannot move.”
jest like the flowers last spring ... the well shone at night.... Thad
recital of that which we know in a waking sense to be false come
On the morning of September fourth Professor Rice and Dr. Morgan
of the baffling bands were precisely like those which the strange
the stars, had awaked to claim his own. The stars were right again, and
Suddenly the sunshine seemed to lessen without the intervention of any
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Do they say that here?  How dreadful of them!
same state, and a number of bones of smaller animals. The ooze and
seem to think that every aunt should be exactly like your aunt! That is
steps of kings. It is better not to be different from one’s fellows.
together ... great bulgin' eyes all over it ... ten or twenty maouths
renewed force and coherence as they grew in stark, utter, ultimate
tomatoes, and Nahum sadly saw that his entire crop was lost. Quick to
particularly, as I told you—and that is what makes it so dreadful about
Impossible!
trusty maid, whose confidence I purchased by means of a small coin, I
men shut their eyes, but Curtis Whateley snatched back the telescope
Cyclopean architectural background.
onds he stood bending over the
than it ever reveals him. And so when I got this offer from Paris, I
whilst an architect had gone mad and a sculptor had lapsed suddenly
died. But don’t waste your tears over Sibyl Vane. She was less real
or not the others were precisely like him. No one could read the old
“Yes; it is very tragic, of course, but you must not get yourself mixed
modern dress.  It makes one look old.  [_Takes up hand-mirror from table
definitely and unmistakably; and it became obvious that the text was
“‘Lots of people act well,’ answered the Miller; ‘but very few people
me that before?  It would have saved me a heap of worry and demmed
memories of pleasant days together.
some divine instinct in him, seems to have always loved the sinner as
Cthulhu for a glorious resurrection when the stars and the earth might
LORD GORING.  In the case of very fascinating women, sex is a challenge,
“It is not my property, Harry.”
Ammi showed them the back door and the path up through the fields to
day was a whirlwind of preparation on the part of them all. Armitage
laboratory where the two phials of dust were finally taken. Under the
to love secrecy. It seems to be the one thing that can make modern life
LORD CAVERSHAM.  You seem to me to be living entirely for pleasure.
screamed outright. While he screamed he thought a momentary cloud
of the dying man. It was uncanny and unnatural--too much, thought Dr.
seriously, what do you say to £2000?  £2500, I think.  In modern life
he had sought to depict in his dream-sculpture. Reference to this
for the entire meeting, was a commonplace-looking middle-aged man
PARKER.  Mrs. Erlynne.
actical life—
the water.
very close to it when he spoke of the city; for instead of describing
hills with him on May Eve and Hallowmass; and in 1926 the poor creature
r his own soul; Giambattista Cibo, who in mockery took the
a compliment is sure to develop into a real friendship.  It starts in the
_Vigilant_ Arrives With Helpless Armed New Zealand Yacht in Tow.
fibre, but sorrow is the most sensitive of all created things.  There is
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Oh! just give that back to me again.
spoke of the dreams in a manner none could mistake.
preserved in the Museum at Hyde Park; and I studied it long and well,
The region now entered by the police was one of traditionally evil
complete edition_, an' _then_ put a match to the prison. Fire from
MRS. ERLYNNE.  I think I had better.  My carriage must have come back by
rong and unjust system.  But, somehow, I have got to make
vice-admiralty's investigation brought out, and what was known of the
her noisome crew had darted eagerly forth as if imperiously summoned,
LADY AGATHA.  [_Entering L._]  Yes, mamma.
following behind with the two horses and the pony. In the hall they
to live, but to wear gloom as a king wears purple: never to smile again:
should not have your paints. As for colour, that is always a matter of
April brought a kind of madness to the country folk, and began that
for. But for those two things, his life might have been free from
se necessary, as the Greek oracle
account! His own soul was looking out at him from the canvas and
the singular clay bas-relief, which was then exceedingly damp and
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Smiling_.]  I don’t think Lord Goring has arrived yet.
divided into two sections, the first of which was headed "1925--Dream
coming to me, and I will start off at once.  But you must lend me your
Girls don’t think it right.
violence of will-power_.  _There is nervousness in the nostrils_, _and in
wouldn't look like nothin' ye expeck. Ye needn't think the only folks
examined, and at once. Anything would be better than this dreadful
warning upon the schooner with a peculiarly heavy battery of brass
to the Opera on Monday night, and told Tommy Rufford at supper that, as
When her third husband died, her hair turned quite gold from grief.”
subtle change in the tilt of the branches. But Nahum was alive, after
o be set back by some unforeseen
“What can I do for you, Mr.
of the French, doesn’t it? But—do you know?—he was not at all a bad
consistent have just as many moods as others have. The only difference
LORD DARLINGTON.  And men?  Do you think that there should be the same
the Arthurian cycle of legends, the life of St. Francis of Assisi, the
The following months were void of visible events, save that everyone
were over he had said all that he had to say, for his conversation was
Can’t, dear boy.  Promised Mrs. Erlynne never to play or drink again.
use of that fund of old-time gold which still, as in his grandfather's
LORD DARLINGTON.  What cynics you fellows are!
Hill behind my House; wherein there were a Rattling and Rolling,
sofa and sits down_.]  It was done before I was married.  Dark hair and
rose-coloured joy. She trembled all over and shook like a white
onyx semblables aux prunelles d’une morte.  J’ai des sélénites qui
and the _furore_ he had excited one lovely June evening by merely
than morals, and, in its opinion, the highest respectability is of much
questioned. It has its divine right of sovereignty. It makes princes of
that the sea was for the swimmer, and the sand for the feet of the
were to live out his life fully and completely, were to give form to
who were enjoying themselves
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I am quite serious.
he softened and kissed her
You may also ring the bell.
Clergymen and people who use phrases without wisdom sometimes talk of
do so, it would absorb my whole nature, my whole soul, my very art
alters one's past.  The Greeks thought that impossible.  They often say
not the priest, that gives us absolution. When Dorian had finished the
the fringe on the roof of the standing democrat-wagon were unstirred.
he answered. “I asked the question for the best reason possible, for
LADY WINDERMERE.  If my husband didn’t read my letter, how is it that you
and gropingly squeezed Its gelatinous green immensity through the black
ask me to dinner again after saying this, I am afraid, Lady Narborough,
is serious nowadays. At least nothing should be.”
moments’ hesitation.
burned on Sentinel Hill as usual, but people paid more attention
months—from the present time. I shall have to pay him something, of
little, and he does not even recall when William Briden, his
must not tell me about things. What is done is done. What is past is
What have I done to deserve this?
MABEL CHILTERN.  Sharp.
the loveliest of the Queen’s maids-of-honour to wear at the next
*       *       *       *       *
“Laughter is not at all a bad beginning for a friendship, and it is far
“My dear Gladys, I would not alter either name for the world. They are
corps.  Il n’y avait rien au monde d’aussi noir que tes cheveux.  Dans le
life has been completed, has reached its fulfilment, has been perfected,'
“I shall be charmed. A visit to Treadley would be a great privilege. It
bounds. No one could look long at them, and even the medical examiner
spectroscope both samples gave off an unknown spectrum, in which many
time the professors felt scarcely sure they had indeed seen with waking
Hopper, dear Agatha and I are so much interested in Australia.  It must
Gray, my hansom is outside, and I can drop you at your own place.
glance showed concavity after the first showed convexity.
Princess had not just been married.”
LADY BRACKNELL.
suppose, Gertrude . . . I suppose I should retire from public life?  [_He
to sinister ears? I think Professor Angell died because he knew too
imagination, and looked back now on his fears with something of pity
"Upon the other hand," he continued, "if he really declines to use the
faint miasmal odour which clings about houses that have stood too long.
HÉRODE.  Je n’ai donné aucun ordre de le tuer.
if it were obtuse. So only Briden and Johansen reached the boat, and
in' ... an' on the wire we could hoar a turrible crashin', an' a hull
looked upon the mask of his shame. Then he drew the screen aside and
[_Enter_ LADY MARKBY _and_ MRS. CHEVELEY.  LADY MARKBY _is a pleasant_,
anything in the world. After all, it is only once that I have not
Prince.  He was gilded all over with thin leaves of fine gold, for eyes
always, this man to whom I am giving my life?  What do I bring him?  Lips
“Never mind that. How long have you known her?”
right. I have chosen my own life. All I say is, watch over Sibyl. Don’t
Taisez-vous, je vous dis . . . Salomé, pensez à ce que vous faites.  Cet
myself from any possible bitterness of feeling against the world.
increased week by week, till it became common speech that "something
ravines of the stricken region. Now and then on some mountain top a
quand ils crient, et quand ils se pavanent la lune se montre au ciel.
reed or brass and charmed—or feigned to charm—great hooded snakes and
letter, he felt that he had been forgiven.
few kisses and some broken pathetic words.”
higher and higher the brave Norwegian drove his vessel head on against
wins were awestruck and subdued, as they were very
let us ever talk about the subject again.  You will write, won’t you, to
The painter bit his lip and walked over, cup in hand, to the picture.
I feel very happy. [They all go off except Jack and Algernon.]
infamous that it will mar every moment of her life.  It will ruin her,
stout spear, I would have run him through the gorge, and made him crow
globules by drilling, the seekers left again with their new
that colour, and knew that this last faint remnant must still lurk down
threw the knife on the table, and listened.
next to your own.
up through the mud by the woods across the road. Never were things of
has got hold of.  Money is not what I want.
SALOMÉ.  Quelle étrange voix!  Je voudrais bien lui parler.
necessity for the continuance of energy in the same wearisome round of
was poor Mrs. Otis, almost out of her mind with terror and anxiety, and
human blasphemy could ever have called him for a moment on the hills."
wider'n a barn is matted daown, an' all the stun walls tumbled every
poetic cast which must have typified his whole conversation, and which
should have the best place’; so he walked at the head of the procession
around to the hill's summit by safer routes they saw that the trail
no longer the actors, but the spectators of the play. Or rather we are
which clasped the croucher's elevated knees. The aspect of the whole
Diversity of opinion about a work of art shows that the work is new,
than I expected. Dr. Chasuble, I hope you are well?
“It has development.”
away any large sums of money to anybody.  He is far too high-principled
he wrote of her bombardment and sinking. Of the swarthy cult-fiends
reformations in morals are as meaningless and vulgar as Reformations in
artistic life leads a man!'  Two of the most perfect lives I have come
“A prince!” she cried musically. “What more do you want?”
of some adventure. I felt that this grey monstrous London of ours, with
the waterfront to the deceased's home in Williams Street. Physicians
and strange forest presences was not laughed at, it was the custom to
Chiltern.
the stars are,” he said to her, “and how wonderful is the power of love!”
you must help me in this matter.
LADY WINDERMERE.  It doesn’t matter.  Tell Parker not to trouble.  That
them—had touched some secret chord that had never been touched before,
to make him recall and record it verbatim, was of a fantastically
temptations that it requires strength, strength and courage, to yield to.
Otherwise he was extremely sensible. Miss Virginia E. Otis was a little
upon that.
read it to you?
“Of course he likes it,” said Lord Henry.
MYSTERY DERELICT FOUND AT SEA
be fine and noble. To spiritualize one’s age—that is something worth
just been wrecked. Let somebody lead the way--I don't know your roads
wreak such results was beyond any mind's guessing. When the harvest
to rescue the fallen telescope and wipe it clean of mud. Curtis was
will Miss Cardew does not come legally of age till she is thirty-five.
little else.  But so has my portion been meted out to me; and during the
you.
MASON.  [_Announcing guests_.]  Lady Markby.  Mrs. Cheveley.
her.”
existing."
Marsyas and had made Niobe childless.  In the steel shields of Athena's
Experience was of no ethical value. It was merely the name men gave to
there was much breathless talk of new elements, bizarre optical
probable that we have the actual terms, the _ipsissima verba_, used by
who are romanticists.”
Brantome, and his cap had double rows of rubies that threw out a great
seem, as a class, to have absolutely no sense of moral responsibility.
there should be no bitterness or hate on either side.
properties, and other things which puzzled men of science are wont to
The next day the ghost was very weak and tired. The terrible excitement
gruesomely dark when, not much over an hour later, a
up at the great house. They walked on till they met a policeman and
three least-ruined ground-floor rooms had always been sufficient for
No, sir; it is not a very interesting subject. I never think of it
strange, almost modern romance. A beautiful woman risking everything
on my release to forget that I have ever been in a prison at all.  I know
boys grew afraid of her, and Thaddeus nearly fainted at the way she
which the atmosphere seemed surcharged.
for the entire meeting, was a commonplace-looking middle-aged man
I believe it _is_ a very pleasant state, sir. I have had very little
would have fainted or gone mad, but Ammi walked conscious through that
LORD GORING.  That is just what I should like to marry.
lock the next morning his servant came in with a cup of
those Whateleys were so fond of--the beings they were going to let in
It’s only two o’clock.  [_Sinks into a chair_.]  The lively part of the
over to the window, opened it and stepped out on the balcony. The wind
caps over the mills, of course, but, by Jove, their granddaughters only
*       *       *
eyes; and had not a present horror numbed him he would have thought of
where dinner had been laid for three.
to come out with me for a walk, Sibyl. I don’t suppose I shall ever see
marvellous people in it. Don’t take away from me the one person who
understand the poetry of life.  How lovely your primroses are looking,
“Disillusion.”
SERVANTS WITH LIGHTED TORCHES"]
Hubbard. I shall certainly drop in and look at the frame—though I don’t
one watched life in its curious crucible of pain and pleasure, one
CECILY.
awkward for Geoffrey, of course. It does not do to pepper beaters. It
“Yes, Harry, I believe that is true. I cannot help telling you things.
questioning at the police station, and in the end Ammi was compelled
garden-girdled Babylon."
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Mais la princesse se lève!  Elle quitte la table!  Elle
work harder.  Idleness is a great sin, and I certainly don’t like any of
rovided I
eligible young ladies.”
on all her wanderings.
have said, the geometry of the place was all wrong. One could not be
GWENDOLEN.
is none.  I hope at least that there is none.
graceful and attractive poetry he himself had whiled away many a weary
“You went to the opera?” said Hallward, speaking very slowly and with a
church at once. Indeed, I have just been informed by the pew-opener
don’t think there is any chance of Gwendolen becoming like her mother
the Gothenburg dock, a bundle of papers falling from an attic window
humans, and the unaccountable deaths of Merwin and Zenas in the tainted
I know of nothing in all drama more incomparable from the point of view
A mountain walked or stumbled. God! What wonder that across the earth
isn't as bad as what Wilbur would have let in if he'd lived longer.
servants, but it was of no avail. It was quite evident that his feelings
Then there burst forth a frantic whinny from Ammi's horse outside,
Oxford saying to one of my friends as we were strolling round Magdalen's
Ancient History, supplies us with many most painful examples of what I
button-hole of Parma violets, Dorian Gray was ushered into Lady
of about fifty, living with his wife and three sons on the pleasant
thought a crashing sound followed the breaking off of the exclamation.
that she had only one child to look after.
that the world held no rock like it. Then I thought with a shudder of
your husband.
had they passed to? Where was the great crocus-coloured robe, on which
him.  It would kill me.  I wonder what happened after I escaped from that
tale. It appears that on March 1st, 1925, a thin, dark young man of
d at his devotion to Virginia, so leaning down
queer image found in the shrine on the _Alert_, is poignantly visible
many contemporary scientifiction stories. You will
“I can’t bear this, Harry! You mock at everything, and then suggest the
advice.  [SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _takes the letter out of his pocket_.]
coming to you.’
I certainly won’t leave you so long as you are in mourning. It would be
But the present was no time to mourn, for almost at this instant a
Or if that phrase seems to be a bitter one to bear, let us say that every
come in from riding.
CHAPTER XIII.
shapes that seeped down from the dark stars. There lay great Cthulhu
him!  Can he deny it?  Does he dare to?
smile. Its bright hair gleamed in the early sunlight. Its blue eyes met
“I hope so,” said his hostess, laughing. “But really, if you all
cryptographic solution seemed to furnish any clue, even when applied
primroses, and filled the Miller’s basket.
detective and scientist agreed on the virtual identity of the phrase
DAVID NUTT, 57–59 LONG ACRE
JACK.
“My dear Harry, my dear Basil, you must both congratulate me!” said the
box to be arrested, the second time to be led back to the house of
rate, had escaped that. Summer followed summer, and the yellow jonquils
again.”
Royal, talking to the pretty Duchess of Monmouth, who with her husband,
“Why, you don’t even know him,” growled the Roman Candle.
possibly do can alter my eternal devotion to you.
ago, had seen it in the crazy vegetation of the springtime, and had
resonant fashion which hinted at sound-producing organs unlike the run
read as follows:
chose.  Je te donnerai tout ce que je possède, sauf une vie.  Je te
says.
moment of surrender, abasement, and humiliation.
j’ai soif . . . Salomé, Salomé, soyons amis.  Enfin, voyez . . .
the children’s heads.
was vague talk about one inland trip these mongrels had made, during
reaching me from the outside world almost without intermission, I have
seemed strained in a kind of instinctive, unconscious listening.
“No,” answered his mother with a placid expression in her face. “He has
Quite so. So I know my constitution can stand it. If you are not quite
JACK.
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_R.C._]  Mrs. Erlynne is coming here, and if you in
And a little child gives away its tears,
at the junction of the Aylesbury pike just beyond Dean's Corners he
and brittle?
le last words of his
an oily tremulous smile. He escorted them to their box with a sort of
have crumbled about me.  I am a ship without a rudder in a night without
could never like; but I was willing enough now to admit both his genius
Well, it is Ernest after all. I mean it naturally is Ernest.
looks at it_.]  But what an hour to call!  Ten o’clock!  I shall have to
“I have known everything,” said Lord Henry, with a tired look in his
very small. When the medical examiner came, there was only a sticky
all who come in contact with his personality, even though they may
instructions, Phipps—into that room.
own lives.
seen, are never remembered; and her husband, a red-cheeked,
"_What was it, anyhaow_, an' haowever did young Wizard Whateley call it
mocking an old man who was brushing the sleeves of his coat with an
following close behind. They walked softly, as men do instinctively at
LORD WINDERMERE.  Used to?  You are not thinking of that wretched woman
terrible part of the intruding horror, and to glimpse a hellish advance
ashen-gray. That evening he went to bed, but slept only fitfully.
Henry? As bad as Basil says?”
found in the swamp.
told things that it seems impossible to doubt. Lord Gloucester was one
are, Harry!” he murmured.
dark corner two figures, who waved their arms wildly above their heads,
pink and pearl, and in the autumn bore rich fruit.  The birds sat on the
connection that it is small wonder he pursued young Wilcox with queries
ma parole, et ma parole c’est la parole d’un roi.  Le roi de Cappadoce
quite discomposed by the singular odor he encountered--such a stench,
The grass had so far seemed untouched, and the cows were freely
who descended on hand-holds with a long pole found that he could sink
performance was over, I went behind and spoke to her. As we were
down to my studio to sit for his picture. But you were simple, natural,
ouse.’
so now.  Wealth has given me enormous power.  It gave me at the very
darkening the sun as it slunk away into the shrunken and gibbous sky
because it had a greater share of the _outsideness_ in it. You needn't
I would sooner say, or hear it said of me, that I was so typical a child
For a moment a hideous sense of humiliation came over the woman. Her
that the bulk of it was in English.
found they were seen to be quite useless and unmanageable. Something
Yes, I felt it instinctively, but I couldn’t wait all that time. I hate
life-forms of this planet and of the three known dimensions. It was
VICOMTE DE NANJAC.  I am so fond of eating!  I am very English in all my
_Third Impression_      _February_ 1902
blood had been spilled. What could atone for that? Ah! for that there
sunsets of great cities.  If I made a list of all that still remains to
present evidence that all human locks and bolts were useless before a
“My dear fellow, I am so sorry. When I am painting, I can’t think of
curtain and surveyed the house. It was a tawdry affair, all Cupids and
he did remains to be seen, for I have learned much now.
be clasped in mine.  But there is no red rose in my garden, so I shall
officials, and all they could do was to give me his Oslo address.
CECILY.
gaunt circle of stones could be glimpsed against the sky. From the
was getting very feeble. When night approached, Ammi managed to get
of it and maddens me when I dream of it. That glimpse, like all dread
he oddly said, was _all wrong_--and hear
MRS. ERLYNNE.  I think I shall keep it.  [_Goes up_.]  It’s extremely
that abandoned well I passed. I hope the water will always be very
but go back to the laboratory and
Parliament and had a vague idea that a chemist was a person who made up
women.  They always want one to be good.  And if we are good, when they
the bottom of the pedestal. The cephalopod head was bent forward, so
velve
it had either prussic acid or white lead in it. I should fancy it was
made so much of the fact that Old Whateley always paid for his cattle
the four doors in sight, only one was locked, and on this he tried
not.
Riches and pleasure seemed to him to be really greater tragedies than
London so suddenly.  Our season is almost over.
for future reports of dreams. This bore regular fruit, for after the
old days the place must have been lonely and remote. And at twilight,
and carrying a cheap new valise from Osborn's general store, this
The men sniffed in disgust at the fluid, and toward the last held their
seen it this last week. It must be somethin' from away off in the sky
Dr. Armitage, associating what he was reading with what he had heard
satirique contre eux.  On le récite partout.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Lord Goring is the result of Boodle’s Club, Mrs.
twelve-fifteen, and it is only just eleven. In fact, I was on my way to
society.
But is a man not equally attractive when married?
and thanked Heaven that most of the other crops were in the upland lot
the medical examiner, and the veterinary who had treated the diseased
n to pace up and down the room,
moons over its loss. When the Huns lured the king into the great pit,
at was to combine something of
_First Published_                                               _1893_
ain’t they? Even those that are born in England become foreigners after
to determine.
formed themselves insensibly under his hands. It was, no doubt, the
and believed he would try a trip to Dunwich within a week. Then, on
LORD WINDERMERE.  I can’t bear to see you with her.  Besides, you have
After a strained moment of silence, he leaned across and said, very
had left their hives and taken to the woods.
_CARLOS BLACKER_
place is not good for imagination, and does not bring restful dreams at
LADY CHILTERN
[Illustration: "CHAINED TO IT WAS A GAUNT SKELETON"]
nuits où la lune ne se montre pas, où les étoiles ont peur, ne sont pas
oking round_.]  Time to educate yourself, I suppose.
voir will soon be built now, and all those elder
slay around idol-capped monoliths in lonely places. He must have been
other people’s tragedies.”
myself,” answered the lad, swinging round on the music-stool in a
[_Il vide la coupe de vin_.]
grave, and showed it to him. He stared at it. Its very horror made him
“Ah!
“I live in it.”
like to be thought so_.  _A flawless dandy_, _he would be annoyed if he
shadow they made real: how strange it all was! He remembered something
the station-master if any one answering to the description of Virginia
CECILY.
schooner _Emma_ of Auckland, which sailed for Callao February 20th,
the cattle, only about a quarter could be found and identified.
An admirable idea! Mr. Worthing, there is just one question I would
“I don’t want you to meet him.”
Swallow, and tell me what you see there.”
here ...
The trees budded prematurely around Nahum's, and at night they swayed
“I am afraid it is rather heavy,” murmured Dorian as he unlocked the
Old Ones. The carven idol was great Cthulhu, but none might say whether
theory or system that would involve the sacrifice of any mode of
the strange cult-members who had lingered in the old sea taverns.
intact likewise prevented Them from making an initial move, and They
married, I had to pretend to be very ill, and was obliged to drink the
would be. Her clever tongue gets on one’s nerves. Well, in any case, be
had died before I had been so horribly tempted, or had fallen so low.
Very natural, I am sure. That will do, Lane, thank you.
GWENDOLEN.
man’s love, and love him in return, has done all the world wants of
nothing about real life would invent.  Nor could I understand how Dante,
job as they had feared it would be, since the water was phenomenally
the red petals of her mouth. “Dorian, you should have understood. But
of me.  You know I am going to give you my wheelbarrow, and so, it is
once more he went with them to see the stony messenger from the
result?  You all go over like ninepins—one after the other.  Not a year
like the men from the college last year says the meteor stone was. The
There is something so unique about Christ.  Of course just as there are
clouded father would say. Then there flashed across the visitor's mind
a type, at once slightly affected and slightly ill-mannered, which I
balustrade and peering down into the black seething well of darkness.
ear, sweet, loving little darling, I really can’t see why
.”
PARKER.  Mrs. Erlynne!
had chanted to their kindred idols was something very like this--the
skin, coarse crinkly hair, and oddly elongated ears. He was soon
its opinion, the highest respectability is of much
After that I went to Sydney and talked profitlessly with seamen and
stars had come round again to the right positions in the cycle of
And palm to palm is holy palmers’ kiss—
was nothing to be afraid of, there.
extraordinary ideas you have about the way to behave to a woman!
Harry, I think I would have wept over it. Somehow, now that it has
felt in New England for some years; and Wilcox's imagination had been
MISS PRISM.
arrived--or am arriving rather, for the journey is long, and 'where I
the moments the shining of the trees increased, while their restless
of Arkham people. There had been no house or ruin near; even in the
leaves became apparent to the eye. All the verdure was going grey,
moment I came upon it at the bottom of a spacious valley; for no other
You have filled my tea with lumps of sugar, and though I asked most
LE PAGE D’HÉRODIAS.  Il était mon frère, et plus proche qu’un frère.  Je
his blanched face in his long, bony hands. Right in front of him was
It is obviously the same person. May I ask what position she holds in
CECIL GRAHAM.  She is, really.
I would rather like to see Cecily.
“Shall I leave the things here, sir?” he asked Campbell.
only half-heartedly that they searched--vainly, as it proved--for some
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Vous venez de quitter le festin, princesse?
burden was always some terrible Cyclopean vista of dark and dripping
JACK.
LORD DARLINGTON.  You look faint.  Come out on the terrace.
come down, Mrs. Otis sent up one of the footmen to tell her. After a
am afraid of it. It makes me too romantic. I have simply worshipped
amusement the tedious luncheon that he had missed by staying so long
Yes, but you said yourself that a severe chill was not hereditary.
the well water was no longer good. It had an evil taste that was not
Don’t frown. You have. And beauty is a form of genius—is higher,
The lamps were lit, and an open Dutch silver spirit-case stood, with
ever have cared for anybody, Arthur.  And so, on the morning of the day
his twin brother, but it looked more like the father than he did._"
intend to have a brother, not even of any kind. I distinctly told him
beautifully that the tall white lilies peeped in at the window and
since.  I make one exception, St. Francis of Assisi.  But then God had
Lord Henry had not yet come in.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I fear I have no advice to give you, Mrs. Cheveley,
was now tremendously mature of aspect, and his height, having reached
suspect something. And, yet,
MRS. MARCHMONT.  Men are so horribly selfish, they never think of these
Thank you, sir. [Lane goes out.]
they attack by sudden and strange surrenders. “I hope you will be
you are a man of the world, and you have your price, I suppose.
he did not see the Giant coming.  And the Giant stole up behind him and
I left it in the cloak-room of one of the larger railway stations in
can be said to equal or even approach the last act of Christ's passion.
others.  You have never let the world soil you.  To the world, as to
Then without warning the hideous thing shot vertically up toward the
comes upon a lonely and curious country. The ground gets higher, and
of a hideous stone image almost identical with that which Legrasse had
party's point of vantage above and behind the entity, had an excellent
tail, starred with myriads of golden eyes. He looked down and saw the
don’t like that. It makes men so very attractive. Cecily, mamma, whose
“Let us go and sit in the shade,” said Lord Henry.
[Languidly_._] I don’t know that I am much interested in your family
MISS PRISM.
This verbal jumble was the key to the recollection which excited and
panic-struck whirring and fluttering. Against the moon vast clouds of
de ses flots.  J’ai des chrysolithes et des béryls, j’ai des chrysoprases
as if it had not been lived in for years. A faded Flemish tapestry, a
that you were the most morbid person in London.
seins.  Toi, quand tu le porteras, tu seras aussi belle qu’une reine.
psychological value at all. Now if Geoffrey had done the thing on
suspect, but God knows he soon saw enough!
Miller in a cheery voice.
in, and drew the dark curtains carefully down over each one. By this
into everything growing now. Yet it was none of Nahum's family at all
their grotesque tales of it ever reached the people of the countryside.
Every man of position is married nowadays.  Bachelors are not fashionable
LORD GORING.  I think I shall, father.
“Where are you lunching, Harry?”
that all the farmers, Nahum included, saw it first. The night had been
Juliet! Harry, imagine a girl, hardly seventeen years of age, with a
accordance with a wise and well-known rule. The post on her left was
on those to whom life denies nothing; and had peered through a clear
straight, Leaf. I only want the key.”
Inspectors, the Eight Hours’ Bill, the Parliamentary Franchise. . . .
whatever he did, everybody cried out, “Charming!
and she got up from her chair and went into the house.
that move restlessly_.  _She is in heliotrope_, _with diamonds_.  _She
to be absolutely incompetent. They were horribly disappointed.
the young Duke of Cheshire, who proposed for her on the spot, and was
[Lady Bracknell and Algernon go into the music-room, Gwendolen remains
for this taint of industry on the ground that the one advantage of
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Bitterly_.]  Men who every day do something of
it becomes true in the end.
caved in;
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_C._]  Lady Windermere, you wrong me horribly—you wrong
death it was returned to him and remains in his possession, where I
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes.  If it had been a girl, I would have called it
courage to send on to his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned
disregarding the absurd improbability of such a theory,
came there was not an animal surviving on the place, for the stock
same utter mystery, terrible antiquity, and unearthly strangeness of
information about a certain transaction contemplated by the Government of
petits pieds seront comme des colombes blanches.  Ils ressembleront à des
when they stood above a dying thing that had passed for fifteen years
LORD GORING.  [_Rising_.]  The Book of Numbers.
Then, when it was seen that nothing further could be gained from the
MERRIMAN.
present from some one of the name of Cecily, and you said you didn’t
was the Frye incident all over again, and nothing dead or living was
no doubt that it is quite right one should be.  It helps one, or should
only a fancy of mine. This unfortunate accident has upset me. I have a
in her large blue eyes.
carved ivories, exquisite surroundings, luxury, pomp—there is much to
disulphide and a dozen others; but although the weight grew steadily
it, Sir Robert, sooner or later!
LADY WINDERMERE.  How impertinent of her!  [_A pause_.]
three-quarters feet tall.
LORD DARLINGTON.  It must be now or not at all.
would hang upon her lips. [Miss Prism glares.] I spoke
American? Ain’t English girls good enough for him?”
conspicuous freshness of the tablet implied kinship with anything but
CECILY.
trees slope fantastically, and where thin brooklets trickle without
Too awed even to hint theories, the seven shaking men trudged back
first time the long heath of some English upland made yellow with the
“Yes, sir. He looks as if he had been a sort of sailor; tattooed on
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_Severely_.]  The music is in German.  You would not
care. Of course, if this gentleman is wealthy, there is no reason why
the absolute dependence of the spirit on certain physical conditions,
ALGERNON.
on the eastern edge of Cold Spring Glen, and all agreed that they
“Dear Basil! I have not laid eyes on him for a week.
a matter of business; told him of my surveying, and asked vague
has been very good to us, and we owe him money.”
certainly Dorian Gray was a subject made to his hand, and seemed to
with Christ to Emmaus.
Potter's general store at Clark's Corners. Stephen Rice had driven past
That was all. After that Johansen only brooded over the idol in the
while he had been laying the tea-things. The screen had not been set
proletariat live correctly.”
present whether her attachment is serious or not. But there is no doubt
The next day all the countryside was in a panic; and cowed,
kitchen, for even the small piece refused to grow cool. On the trip
daylight in an attitude of deep thought.
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Je trouve que c’est ridicule de discuter sur de telles
something about success, actual success, that is a little unscrupulous,
, the son
they was still some o' them awful prints big as bar'ls like he seen
was out of the soil. His wife now had spells of terrific screaming,
genuinely frightened, and threw the thing away at once, so that only
it was Mis' Corey, George's wife that lives daown by the junction.
e
intimately will tell you, I refuse everything except food and drink. At
Be afraid of nothing....
polis, and clambered slipperily up over titan oozy blocks which
walk unassisted, with falterings which another month was sufficient to
woman who had taken his money. “There goes the devil’s bargain!” she
sings.
LORD DARLINGTON.  Your wife’s fan?
Webb's Acct." The other manuscript papers were all brief notes, some
Let me think. Or, rather, let me try not to think.”
them.
disposition, and he made a most brilliant descent in a shower of golden
to the blind, ears to the deaf, and a cry in the lips of those whose
writing now, but things were told by word of mouth. The chanted ritual
er
youth, one has merely to repeat one’s follies.”
memories of chantings in the great stone circles were not altogether
summer day in London.
wa'n't me that put this Dee copy in the shape it is...."
change taking place before his very eyes, shuddering as he hoped it.
PREFACE
hat they found. Merwin
returned, she had kept all her illusions. She tried to look
"I made some use of 'em," he would say as he tried to mend a torn
will not say that prison is the best thing that could have happened to
“I entreat you.”
MRS. ERLYNNE.  No—no—
is quite incredible.”
believed in everything, and knew absolutely nothing. How lovely that
country folk had seen the baby, and no one bothered to comment on the
imaginative. Even as things were, his mind was bent ever so slightly;
"the moving colours down there." Two in one family was pretty bad,
[_They rise and go towards the music-room_.  _The_ VICOMTE DE NANJAC, _a
worthy man.
run across the road; and the leaps of that rabbit were longer than
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Agatha, you say the most silly things possible.  I
analysed, of course, so he busied himself in obtaining them--and here
As the dawn was just breaking, he found himself close to Covent Garden.
and who received Leonora of Aragon in a pavilion of white and crimson
The matter of the cult still remained to fascinate me, and at times
thought a crashing sound followed the breaking off of the exclamation.
low. There is no need to speak too exactly of what they found. Merwin
possible. I don’t allow any Bunburying here.
soon. And you can bring tea.
into them has been a mistake—I discovered that last night.
to Sir George Alexander_, _by arrangement with whom this play is included
really from himself. The few words that Basil’s friend had said to
town by the curving road on the south. I vaguely wished some clouds
LORD GORING.  Yes.  In married life affection comes when people
DUMBY.  She doesn’t really love you then?
all. Its texture was glossy, and upon tapping it appeared to promise
him—words spoken by chance, no doubt, and with wilful paradox in
Windermere—or to mine?
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma.  [_Rises_.]
to inquire if there is anything known against her.  There may be some
of things that made me love you—memories of words that made me love
The aperture was black with a darkness almost material. That
tory, he was haunted by a feeling of loss. So much had been
the sleeping shepherds from their dreams.  It floated through the reeds
a room hung with rows of the queen’s devices in cut black velvet upon
park.”
Armitage and his companions.
missing Zenas. "In the well--he lives in the well--" was all that the
connection with these saxifrages.
“‘Quite full?’ said little Hans, rather sorrowfully, for it was really a
LORD WINDERMERE.  Your honour is untouched, Margaret.  You don’t think
know lots of people there who would give a hundred thousand dollars to
asked Hallward, with a slight frown.
more, while Mrs. Pierce listened in a clutching fright. It was little
boarding-up of all the windows in the reclaimed section--though many
like a elephant had ben along, _only they's a sight more nor four feet
from any human throat were they born, for the organs of man can yield
according to St. Thomas, one might call it--says somewhere that Christ's
chose comme un battement d’ailes, comme un battement d’ailes
I hear, I shouldn’t like to.
the same path. At the base of the hill a thirty-foot swath of crushed
come back...."
ce moment-ci je veux être heureux.  Au fait je le suis.  Je suis très
and quiet, and seemed shaken by memories and reflections even more
g-room.
[_They all go out except_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  _He sinks in a chair_,
The "Dutchman's breeches" became a thing of sinister menace, and the
satirically.
love! My love! Prince Charming! Prince of life! I have grown sick of
who made the next discovery.
[_Goes out for a moment_.  _Then returns_, _looking rather put out_,
blended, became to him a kind of prefiguring type of himself. And,
Romeo.”
May Eve of 1915 there were tremors which even the Aylesbury people
Meanwhile no more must be told. There was a secret which even torture
That wouldn’t be at all a bad thing.
R'lyeh under the waters, should rise and bring the earth again beneath
produced on me, for some days afterwards he wrote and asked me to come
often convincing.
ever given me anything since, I am sorry to say.  He has sadly
going to accept this sacrifice.  I am not.  It is too great.  I am going
est terrible.  Le vent qui vient de ses ailes est terrible.  C’est un
keep away. The present voodoo orgy was, indeed, on the merest fringe
What is the matter, Uncle Jack? Do look happy! You look as if you had
of his personality that his mere presence could bring peace to souls in
goodness more real because you lived.  And now—oh, when I think that I
Campbell bringing in the heavy chest, and the irons, and the other
what one becomes.  It is well to have learned that.
looked different as I came in.”
arm. “In that case, let our friendship be a caprice,” he murmured,
really were, I should not have invited you to my house last night.
Street.
began it all with his Paragon Detergent, I certainly saw no reason why I
half-chocked with caved-in earth. Digging had borne no fruit, and the
A feeble scratching on the floor downstairs now sounded distinctly, and
friend, if you will allow me to call you so, may I ask if you really
MRS. CHEVELEY.  My memory is under admirable control.  And are you still
grew afraid that others would know of my idolatry. I felt, Dorian, that
ordinary hand-bag?
cracked piano, that nearly drove me away, but at last the drop-scene
dreadful people you associate with. Don’t shrug your shoulders like
was a thick fetid deposit of the same tarry stickiness
of years rolled by. They knew all that was occurring in the universe,
anything happens to our good duchess, we shall all look on you as being
drawing-room_.  _The fire is lit_.  _Phipps_, _the butler_, _is arranging
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_After a pause_.]  I am tired of living abroad.  I want
MASON.  Lady Markby.  Mrs. Cheveley.
[_PARKER enters L. and crosses towards the ball-room R._  _Enter_ MRS.
ACT IV.       _Same as Act I._
our lives depend.
companions in the garden, and in the evening I led the dance in the Great
and to watch the Sun in his chariot of gold, and the Moon in her chariot
I adore you. But you haven’t proposed to me yet. Nothing has been said
They can discover everything except the obvious.
Street, a hideous Victorian imitation of Seventeenth Century Breton
portrait, shuddering as he glanced at it.
ALGERNON.
current of vapour had brushed past him--and then poor Nahum had been
round the Gardners and all they touched, and the very presence of one
Goring good-for-nothing?
Worthing’s. That seems to me to have the stamp of truth upon it.
sack on his shoulders.
what I bid you to do, the whole world shall know the origin of Robert
go downstairs_.]
had encountered a singular tribe or cult of degenerate Eskimos whose
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Frowning_.]  Console herself?
l’occasion d’un mariage qui a eu lieu dans une petite ville de Galilée,
“I wonder is that really so, Harry?” said Dorian Gray, putting some
hideously unmistakable tracks showed what had passed by. Only a few
LADY WINDERMERE.  Come back to me?  [_C._]
particular species, or even hint at its remotest affiliations.
face. Then shivering, though the atmosphere of the room was terribly
specimen. The proportions of its body seemed slightly altered in a
varnish before that, so I must see it some day, and why not to-day?”
offering created. One sight of the thing had been enough to throw the
m not surprised.  True love suffers, and is silent.  I
dissatisfied with what I have done of him, or that his beauty is such
eself.  They always go to the bad.
never see my portrait of Dorian Gray.”
affectations.
“I can’t, Basil.”
LADY WINDERMERE.  Arthur, I can’t bear it any longer.  I must tell you.
disturbed Professor Angell. He questioned the sculptor with scientific
Arnheim.  I wonder what it was.
So the Swallow picked out the great ruby from the Prince’s sword, and
“An illusion.”
The _Vigilant_ left Valparaiso March 25th, and on April 2d was
his sway. Some day he would call, when the stars were ready, and the
matters rest, particularly as he heard that among the guests was the
might be followed by another. I think you might have telegraphed for me
s ministers on earth still bellow and prance and
heat lingered persistently, and Nahum declared it had glowed faintly in
tremble in the wind, he shook. The dead leaves that were blown against
“The people are still discussing poor Basil’s disappearance.”
vêtements, et qui marche avec une force toute puissante?  Pourquoi vos
accordingly rubbed out the stain a second time, but the second morning
defamed in her eyes.  I am ignoble in her eyes.  There is a wide gulf
outside. Mrs. Frye proposed telephoning the neighbors, and Elmer was
beyond all Nature as we know it; from realms whose mere existence stuns
all Democrats. Once in New York, you are sure to be a great success. I
Suddenly he started. His eyes grew strangely bright, and he gnawed
hear strange things a-rushin' an' a-talkin' in the air daown thar ef ye
CECILY.
MASON.  Lord Goring.
room above. What presence had his cry and entry started up? Halted by
MRS. CHEVELEY [_Smiling_.]  No, lady Markby—a ruby.
HÉRODE.  A quel sujet?  Ah! je vous ai adressé une question, n’est-ce
immensely. Then it passed away. I cannot repeat an emotion. No one can,
kind. A decent-looking man, sir, but rough-like. A sort of sailor we
very nasty scandal. You couldn’t survive it.  If it were known that as a
hideous croaking out of space. "_Y'bthnk ... h'ehye ... n'grkdl'lh...._"
sit all day long in high trees, and can be heard, it is said, at a
“What a dreadful storm it was!  The night was so black that little Hans
burns an' sucks ... it come from some place whar things ain't as they
pieces with age and worm-holes.
and below was only a darkness to which the men dared not return, and
missing Zenas. "In the well--he lives in the well--" was all that the
envoyée.  Si vous regardiez à travers cette émeraude vous pourriez voir
accompanied Nahum home with the greatest reluctance, and did what he
was abnormally lifelike, and the more subtly fearful because its source
to see something not quite right about their nature and arrangement.
red barn had completely caved in. Of
pale, and with a strange light in her eyes. "I am not afraid," she said
h; “no good at all, for he has gone away.”
little things, to a tiny seed, to a handful of leaven, to a pearl.  That
your brilliant Vienna for our gloomy London—or perhaps the question is
sleep?"
tirely away, or tells one everything about them except what one wants
the blasted heath will slumber far below blue waters whose surface will
neither bring ruin upon others, nor ever receive it from alien hands.
situated. "Hallo! the old withered almond-tree has blossomed. I can see
are known to have the most admirable husbands in London.
landed at the trim wharves in the shadow of the Egeberg.
The painter considered for a few moments. “He likes me,” he answered
found, though all the household confessed now and then to poorer health
blow.... And how charming he had been at dinner the night before, as
princesse?
mystical, and in ambergris that stirred one’s passions, a
absurd for him to marry so much beneath him.”
like to ask for it. I must have it.”
* * * * *
property; for it had "drawn the lightning," as Nahum said, with a
adored.
think it is at all polite to throw pillows at him,"--a very just remark,
a great architect went mad, and poor Wilcox raved with fever in that
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_R._]  Now really, Mrs. Erlynne, allow me to explain.
me!  [MRS. ERLYNNE _smiles_, _and continues conversation_.]
one’s self. Poor dreadful Mr. Isaacs will be shouting ‘genius’ to his
spectrum vanished in a month, the dust thereafter consisting mainly of
_First Published_ (_Second Edition_) _by      _February_           _1908_
are here?  Who told you I had left the house you were shameless enough to
courage in your eyes.  All London will know why you did it; and who will
mysteries to reveal.
noxious cult in Dunedin? And most marvelous of all, what deep and more
been told to him, it had yet stirred him by its suggestion of a
I know lots of people think that.
fresh.
“‘Well, really,’ answered the Miller, ‘I do not think it is much to ask
and in the absence of his host stammered out a desperate tale once
Cthulhu for a glorious resurrection when the stars and the earth might
summer, and when winter came on sheltering myself by the warm
“I should not wonder if he was quite right there. But, on the other
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Yes.
which had certainly been the lantern; while a bent pail and twisted
“Certainly, Harry. Just touch the bell, and when Parker comes I will
smitten into scarlet gold the upper windows of the houses opposite. The
possessed a gorgeous cope of crimson silk and gold-thread damask,
along the dripping wall moved out into the light and came close to him
soul’?”
was my sister. She killed herself. I know it. Her death is at your
be got from all these. But the artistic temperament that they create,
will.
MABEL CHILTERN.  I know.  And I think you might have mentioned it before.
I had ever heard from it before.”
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Sometimes.  But it is such a very difficult pose to keep
require the Liber Conformitatum to teach us that the life of St.
The painter shuddered in spite of himself. “Dorian, if I told you, you
as well never have been punished at all.  Of course there are many things
LORD DARLINGTON.  Oh! she doesn’t love me.  She is a good woman.  She is
Won’t you see me to my carriage?  You might carry the fan.
after a pause.
of tone it was absolutely false. It was wrong in colour. It took away
les rois de la terre auront peur.
LADY MARKBY.  Ah! my dear, you need not be nervous.  You will always be
seem to forget that I know his real character.
LORD GORING.  You wretched woman, must you always be thieving?  Give me
hideous news. The death had come to poor Thaddeus in his attic room,
monstrous apes. He had seen grotesque children huddled upon door-steps,
married to her already, and I don’t think you ever will be.
or temptation is.
partly human, beyond a doubt, with very manlike hands and head, and the
The wind gibbers with Their voices, and the earth mutters with
the Giant.  But the little boy whom the Giant loved was never seen again.
as they ate their meagre and ill-cooked meals and did their thankless
“And ... Harry!”
“It was not intended as a compliment. It was a confession. Now that I
reality.  I have said of myself that I was one who stood in symbolic
it.  What God was to the pantheist, man was to Him.  He was the first to
“You were quite right. There is always something infinitely mean about
you were away from me, you were still present in my art.... Of course,
herself on her broken heart; “but love is not fashionable any more, the
JACK.
“What do you want me to say?”
“Whose property is it?”
[Illustration: "'POOR, POOR GHOST,' SHE MURMURED; 'HAVE YOU NO PLACE
CECILY.
which had certainly been the lantern; while a bent pail and twisted
bushy eyebrows_.]  Do you always really understand what you say, sir?
LADY CHILTERN.
arrange, in apparently careful order, all the rotting ancient books and
that strange days are never talked about in Arkham.
ngle of glens and
[Enter Jack.]
opera-glass.
will come closer to the earth. You won’t? Let us go to the club, then.
“Let us go down to the theatre. When Sibyl comes on the stage you will
must learn how to be cheerful and happy.
is the difference between us.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Show Mrs. Cheveley out.
tragedy if I died before I was allowed to complete at any rate a little
if for protection.]
at all. I suppose in about a fortnight we shall be told that he has
husband has got seventeen of them.”
is to say, it abandons him at the very moment when its highest duty
[Airily_._] Oh, neighbours, neighbours.
small change. That is the worry. Women, as some witty Frenchman once
are you?—you who are finer than any of them!”
married. You would be a set of unfortunate bachelors. Not, however,
was not likely to be unriddled with ease. No trace of the ancient gold
“Four husbands! Upon my word that is _trop de zêle_.”
home, his eyes were full of tears, for he knew he was safe.
all—though I wish you chaps would not squabble over the picture. You
there like a trampled flower.
other Eskimos knew little, and which they mentioned only with shudders,
less as time passed, and the fragment seemed to be slightly cooling,
humanity is sometimes cruelly judged by the law. I gathered that no
scenery, and that looked as if it had come out of a country-booth. But
gone, too, and the wise men talked of the strange stone's affinity
ke. A
Oh, flowers are as common here, Miss Fairfax, as people are in London.
Quoiqu’elle ne se repentira jamais, mais restera dans ses abominations,
the Indian circles on the hills, and which could not come from anything
thankful that the windows were just too high to permit of peering
LORD WINDERMERE.  I must go to her.  You’ll excuse me?
is not reassuring to see, on a closer glance, that most of the houses
“Well, I said Pylotechnic,” answered the Rocket, in a severe tone of
monstrous work, trembled with the responsibility he felt to be
but Zechariah came to lead a pair of Alderney cows which Old Whateley
ise or bend. They either slay the man, or themselves
and of those unhallowed blasphemies from elder stars which dream
the present moment I am eating muffins because I am unhappy. Besides, I
think.”
THE King’s son was going to be married, so there were general rejoicings.
Wal, Mis' Corey, ef they was on the glen rud this side o' the glen,
and Zenas were both there, in part, though the vestiges were mainly
looking forward to meeting your clever husband, Lady Chiltern.  Since he
In the elder time chosen men had talked with the entombed Old Ones in
Dorian started and peered round. “This will do,” he answered, and
last night.
moments of admirable common sense.  I congratulate you.
him, and looked
Edomites.  Tes cheveux sont comme les cèdres du Liban, comme les grands
the whole world’; and he ran in for his cap, and trudged off with the big
he done so than, with a piteous wail of terror, he fell back, and hid
the brink of cosmic horrors beyond man's power to bear? If so, they
and climbed the creaking stairs to the attic. It was very close and
conscious how unjust, how cruel, he had been to Sibyl Vane. It was not
love, but through hatred, not in worship, but in contempt.  The hold I
“I entreat you, Alan.”
intosh.
which had sickened him at the Whateley farmhouse less than three years
[Astounded.] Well . . . surely. You know that I love you, and you led
by the arm, he almost led him into the house.
mocking imps of Tartarus.
eternally over old New England secrets in the lee of great ledges; but
I may tell you candidly that the place is not in Shropshire.
Whatever had burst loose upon the world had assuredly gone down into
way through the sanguine labyrinth of passion through which he was
image of himself, came over him. It had altered already, and would
has discovered everything.
stone molding--that is, one would call it climbing if the thing was not
The figure, which was finally passed slowly from man to man for close
MABEL CHILTERN.  Oh, I love London Society!  I think it has immensely
would have fainted or gone mad, but Ammi walked conscious through that
HÉRODIAS.  Ah! c’est bien dit, ma fille.
good. You know I have been always a stanch friend to you.”
to-day as you were twenty years ago. Ah! let me be happy for ever!”
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Sternly_.]  Yes!
moon looks down, and the yew-tree spreads out its giant arms over the
“I shall write it in my diary to-night.”
man who can’t talk morality twice a week to a large, popular, immoral
_recombining_ in its hateful original form, whilst its distance widened
improved.
in the woods and fields, and the few who have ever dared glimpse it in
she has cut my heart in two.  Don’t let us talk of it.  I was brutal to
shuffled timidly to the door I could tell he was not glad to see me. He
returned the next morning to see the ruins by daylight, but there were
I want you to be fine. You have not been fine. One has a right to judge
Arthur, women are never disarmed by compliments.  Men always are.  That
together that which I hope may never be pieced together again. I have
rentrerai pas avant qu’elle n’ait dansé.  Dansez, Salomé, dansez pour
everything ... in that stone ... it must o' come in that stone ...
have another statue, of course,” he said, “and it shall be a statue of
DUMBY.  She doesn’t really love you then?
since the horror happened, but he has never been there, and will be
de tes petites dents.  Mordez un tout petit morceau de ce fruit, et
it. Let me see it.” And Hallward walked towards the corner of the room.
there is no such thing, sir, as a ghost, and I guess the laws of Nature
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
with champagne. He drank eagerly, and his thirst seemed to increase.
himself. Then he loathed his own beauty, and flinging the mirror on the
him and thrown his wife into fits of anxiety. Reassuring her without
neck, and kissed him.  And the other children, when they saw that the
never come down again.  He did, though, for he was of a kindly
a very difficult thing to get real blood nowadays, and, as your brother
Perhaps there may come into my art also, no less than into my life, a
l’a bien prédit.  Il a prédit que la lune deviendrait rouge comme du
poles. I shall go to those poles when the earth is cleared off, if
all the woodwork in sight; steps, sides, exposed laths, and beams alike.
h of any member of our family."
with his lungs filled with breathable air. When he did enter he saw
honour.  Of course you know nothing of these matters, for you are a
UN JUIF.  Cela ne se peut pas.  Depuis le temps du prophète Élie il y a
are farms, ancient and rocky, with squat, moss-coated cottages brooding
seemed quite to satisfy.
him, and looked
pride has been answered. The prayer of your repentance will be answered
and a young lad with rough brown hair came into the room. He was
one can behold Them as They tread.
MISS PRISM.
better write it at once.  Such offers are not repeated.  I will ask you
“And ...
THE SCENES OF THE PLAY
Iokanaan?
s the earth
Whateley, who wanderingly remembered ancient things but who had been
more, while Mrs.
DUMBY.  It’s no use talking to Tuppy.  You might just as well talk to a
s forehead,
about on huge feet. I wish I had known it was your friend.”
possessing an unknown spectrum, wasting away in air, and attacking
sot as he kin for they're goin' to be all of his larnin'."
the sight of a Spectre in armour, if for no more sensible reason, at
eclipsed the window, and a second later he felt himself brushed as if
the formal publication of the society. Caution is the first care of
UN NUBIEN
[Bitterly.] People who live entirely for pleasure usually are.
hieroglyphics, and heard the ominous syllables which can be rendered
here, and
May I ask if it is in this house that your invalid friend Mr. Bunbury
arcana of Trithemius' _Poligraphia_, Giambattista Porta's _De Furtivis
the second, "Narrative of Inspector John R. Legrasse, 121 Bienville
skies of spring and the flowers of summer must ever afterward be poison
at if this man wrongs my sister, I will find out who he is, track him
wildly excited, but his
the panes? It is marvellously romantic. What a blessing it is that
never wrong.
talking very foolishly to-night.  What I say is that marriage is a matter
voir.
And you will always call me Gwendolen, won’t you?
summons from the swamp and lagoon country to the south. The squatters
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Walking over_.]  Well, what is it?
with a piercing shriek into the ankle-deep mud of the road. He reeled,
LORD GORING.  You mean that you amused yourself immensely, don’t you?
dinner, and don’t mention the subject again this evening.  Arthur [_going
He threw himself into a chair and began to think.
“I was terribly cruel to her. You forget that.”
as he suspected, they were used as a cipher in a modern language. It
duty to speak one’s mind. It becomes a pleasure.
scandal!  He loves _me_!  He loves _me_!  But why should I not look?  I
LORD GORING.  Ah! the truth is a thing I get rid of as soon as possible!
came over her. “How badly I acted to-night, Dorian!” she cried.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Troubled and hesitating_.]  But it is my husband
[_The butler enters_, _followed by the footman_.  _Tea is set on a small
used by certain forbidden cults which have come down from old times,
woods that no axe has ever cut.
ilious honour, had felt it his
“I know you will laugh at me,” he replied, “but I really can’t exhibit
When after two months in the infirmary I was transferred here, and found
you any wrong, I shall kill him.”
oak staircase, a door was flung open, two little white-robed figures
and from that time forward kept close watch of the case; calling
frequent meetings and night trips to the woods attracted no little
remain in open pasturage. About 2 in the morning a frightful stench and
JACK.
that better than I?  Windermere must be got out of the house; that is
present day I can’t make out why I did so; and yet if I hadn’t—my dear
t. You are one of the
relations that imaginative sympathy which in the sphere of Art is the
MRS. ERLYNNE.
Europe_. The cuttings largely alluded to outré mental illnesses and
I was expected to go over his papers with some thoroughness; and for
I am sick to death of cleverness. Everybody is clever nowadays. You
with dust and that the carpet was in holes. A mouse ran scuffling
for my unfortunate sitters. I beg you to stay.”
not like other rustics I had known in the sections where reservoirs
fright in that accursed instant. The Thing can not be described--there
Monday."
do; in fact, must do.  And when I use such a phrase as that, I need not
he heard a nasty, slopping sound down there. Everyone listened, and
She began to complain.
from its non-committal bulk.
And yet you will not lie to me.
sleep.  The only people who were pleased were the Snow and the Frost.
which the twins had constructed from the entrance of the Tapestry
carried always in his pocket. Then, indeed, I succeeded in opening it,
Inspector Legrasse was scarcely prepared for the sensation which his
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_With a look of surprise_.]  Lord Goring expects me?
was a placard with strange writing in antique characters, some scroll of
swept over the garden like a shadow, and like a shadow she sailed through
say that I am not alluding to any external sanction or command.  I admit
another log on it. The smell of the singeing clothes and burning
his grandfather had done upstairs four years before. He was living
VICOMTE DE NANJAC.  [_Approaching_.]  Ah, the English young lady is the
Something has happened to you, Dorian. Tell me what it is. You are not
the hidden cult, save from what my uncle's relentless catechism had let
LORD GORING.  Then I will go and see him myself, and tell him that a
until one night when he drove past Nahum's house in his sleigh on the
She shook her head. “I knew he was not free. We loved each other very
as _mine_.  That is but fair.
ALGERNON.
elling Sibyl how desolate she felt her life would be, now
by purely professional considerations. The statuette, idol, fetish,
La Vénus de l’Adriatique
for her to know, and from me.  It will cause her infinite pain—it will
CHAPTER X.
MISS PRISM.
have dreadful tempers.  Do you know, I think I’ll dance with you first,
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Sullenly_.]  I do _not_ love him!
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; but nothing ever came of
seins.  Toi, quand tu le porteras, tu seras aussi belle qu’une reine.
it. Oh, don’t leave me, don’t leave me.” A fit of passionate sobbing
gusta, a
and below was only a darkness to which the men dared not return, and
artists and people who have suffered: those who know what beauty is, and
Darlington, will you give me back my fan, please?  Thanks. . . . A useful
He turned round, and leaning upon his elbow, began to sip his
stricken friend, "It come from some place whar things ain't as they is
caution before audacity and see that it meets no other eye.
without doing something stupid. But I will have nothing to do with it.”
She says the hired boy Luther was aout drivin' in the caows from the
seen that colour before, and feared to think what it might mean. He
n, worried about
like the
trivial!
“Basil, my dear boy, puts everything that is charming in him into his
boyish moods. Do you think this girl will ever be really content now
Being ordered peremptorily to turn back, Capt. Collins refused;
the mixed blood and marine pursuits of the cult-members in Louisiana,
But after a time the book fell from his hand. He grew nervous, and a
own
insult to poor Adolphe, who invented the _menu_ specially for you,” and
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
howls and squawking ecstasies that tore and reverberated through those
dark.
we try to solve it by amusing the slaves.”
was he thought only of the blasphemous monstrosity which confronted
the first little bit of self-sacrifice I have ever known, is really a
had written to him when she was dying alone in her villa at Mentone.
He paused exhausted, as the whole group of natives stared in a
desk. After a week of debate it was sent to Miskatonic University,
told his colleagues it would be suicidal to try to attack it in the
cent girl like that is quite inexcusable. To say
seen nothing of life's mystery, saw it clearly, and others who had been
it matter to him? One’s days were too brief to take the burden of
istened. As it had killed the painter, so it would kill
there not a single house open to me in pity; had I to accept the wallet
existence, I determined to end the matter one way or the other, and
and some of them will doubtless linger even when half the hollows are
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Il regarde quelque chose.
queer way impossible to describe, while its face had taken on an
knees, and was rapidly scouring the floor with a small stick of what
there a lantern gleamed at the stern of some huge merchantman. The
followed her at once by a luggage train. Her unhappy father is, I am
make his way home through the flues and chimneys, arriving at his own
n what seems to me a peculiarly unnecessary manner?
LADY WINDERMERE.  Don’t talk about such people.
through the upsetting of a Gower Street omnibus in younger and happier
reported it. Yes, it had been merely fancy.
the future, and always under the usual palm tree.
ALGERNON.
were themselves patterns of some other and more perfect form whose
Windermere, _you_ more than any one else in life.
as if a hand of ice had been laid upon his heart.
".
this letter.  The brilliant Mrs. Cheveley does not seem to have noticed
the woods and fields, he had found some very curious things near the
market.  After he had waited there some time, he sold the sack of flour
was pure white with real red legs, was trying to teach them how to stand
In the carriage, Gwendolen! [Gwendolen goes to the door. She and Jack
Basil Hallward that had made him kill him as he sat in the chair came
noxious carven statuette. From a wide circle of ten scaffolds set up
and the tears were not yet dry in his beautiful eyes.
certain hours from stated points at the bottom of the great ravines;
“Money, I suppose,” said Lord Fermor, making a wry face. “Well, sit
ressemblait au son de la flûte d’un joueur de flûte.  Aussi il aimait
wet Sunday, an uncouth Christian in a mackintosh, a ring of sickly
not quite what I expected.”
Experience. Odd Idol Found in His Possession. Inquiry to Follow.
in the spaces we know, but _between_ them. They walk serene and
the charnel-house.
dreadful, hideous, and uncouth.
existence of ghosts, Mrs. Otis expressed her intention of joining the
monstrueuse.  Enfin, ce qu’elle a fait est un grand crime.  Je suis sûr
dine with one’s own relations. In the second place, whenever I do dine
down here to console me. That is charming of you. You find me consoled,
Stubbornly refusing to grow cool, it soon had the college in a state
“I hear a gentleman comes every night to the theatre and goes behind to
“What o’clock is it, Victor?” asked Dorian Gray drowsily.
letter this woman now holds.  He made three-quarters of a million over
bones such as
mirror the sky and ripple in the sun. And the secrets of the strange
extremely civil. I assure you that it is an education to visit it.”
keep away. The present voodoo orgy was, indeed, on the merest fringe
on of
curious, for he asked me to be his wife yesterday afternoon at 5.30. If
Their arrangement was odd, and seemed to follow the symmetries of some
During the ensuing weeks Dr. Armitage set about to collect all possible
The man had to touch him twice on the shoulder before he woke, and as
“Well,” said the Linnet, hopping now on one leg and now on the other, “as
They had uncovered what seemed to be the side of a large coloured
consequently Algernon’s elder brother.
face, came across the room to him. She put her hand upon his arm and
is at once the type and test of all great art.  What the artist is always
I haven’t asked you to dine with me anywhere to-night.
out of space--a frightful messenger from unformed realms of infinity
far as I can see.  I am thoroughly disappointed with myself.
superstition--_but they were there before_. They are transcripts,
later life.  I absolutely declined to accept or admit the enormous truth
bear the burden that should have been his own.
was in danger, since the Elder Things wished to strip it and drag it
and unclean. What did it matter? No one could see it. He himself would
CECILY.
stops_.  _The voices grow louder_, _and she goes back into the
eat purple-and-gold texture that
evidently a man of some wealth. Was he born in what the Radical papers
parlera
of silver, came to her cheeks as she glanced at the crowded
whose
room in your house, at half-past ten o’clock at night?  You want me to
any kind on that broad expanse, but only a fine grey dust or ash which
“You won’t forget?”
wound thee?”  For on the palms of the child’s hands were the prints of
an art that is necessarily immobile, seek to convey the sense of
without being conscious of it. They had met at Lady Berkshire’s the
“Discord is to be forced to be in harmony with others. One’s own
not a defence.
satisfied air, as if he had summed up the world in a phrase. There was
the public, but had left a long manuscript--of "technical matters" as
effective as the seven deadly sins. In a thoughtless moment I asked one
ath from the skies whose motions and dimensions our
white-fanged watchdog that barked with unnatural fury and enmity, and
bas-relief and the disjointed jottings, ramblings, and cuttings which I
riding beside him and his mantle stained with the blood of Perotto;
and Wilcox could not understand the repeated promises of silence
ALGERNON.
only fair that you should do something for me in return.’
a pause.
could have been no mortal staircase.
of being an undeveloped mouth or throat. The limbs, save for their
Ah! This is what the newspapers call agricultural depression, is it
years Miss Cardew’s esteemed governess and valued companion.
JACK.
what lay beyond it, everything about me was so beautiful.
few. All of these, however, bore out the notes in full. I have often
repassed with snail-like deliberateness. Then it was obvious that the
ic whinny from Ammi's horse outside,
misunderstandings!
question were those descriptive of the dreams of various persons
ue le
margin is everything.  Windermere, don’t you think the world an intensely
not any real ruins. Only the bricks of the chimney, the stones of the
leaving.  [_Goes over to the writing-table and pulls out the drawers_.]
[With elaborate politeness.] Thank you. [Aside.] Detestable girl! But I
it himself, and does not allow other people to use it, though it may be
that Mr. Bunbury was interested in social legislation. If so, he is
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Elle a l’air très étrange.  On dirait une petite
before her like frightened forest things. Her white feet trod the huge
growing luminosity of the trees. The neighing and stamping of the
There were ammonia and caustic soda, alcohol and ether, nauseous carbon
disappointed man as he gazed at the wonderful statue.
still I think you had better wait till Uncle Jack arrives. I know he
was fast taking form.
path. Once the mare swerved at a white gate-post and nearly threw him.
sought to free himself from it. He procured from Paris no less than
JACK.
Nor is it merely that we can discern in Christ that close union of
metal. A thin film of ice bordered the flat, reed-grown lake.
les dalles, et des Grecs de Smyrne avec leurs yeux peints et leurs joues
. . . with your invalid friend who has the absurd name.
married off her daughters to some rich, rather elderly men
to stop talking to him merely because he pays no attention.  I like
shapes are but modes of manifestation, and it is with this spirit that I
fan.
simply this,” said the painter after some time. “Two
ta mère.
acre's extent, clear of trees and tolerably dry. On this now leaped and
from the pit itself, had not their source been so unmistakably the
silicon compounds with mutual destruction as a result, it presented
I had said of Christ that he ranks with the poets.  That is true.  Shelley
On dirait un noeud de serpents noirs qui se tortillent autour de ton cou.
And has the nature of infinity.'
being with myriad lives and myriad sensations, a complex multiform
that the only thing worth loving is an actress?”
I would do anything in the world, except take exercise, get up early,
the world is shown through a mist of tears, and the life of a man is no
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_Pressing_ LADY BASILDON’S _hand_.]  My poor Olivia!
indeed, for I made it last night in a dream of strange cities; and
of the window to try and discover in what wing of the house the room was
place a visit.
sourit et s’évente_.  _Les Nazaréens s’agenouillent et commencent à
the ancient tottering cottage where the trees first begin to get very
really. I would sooner not. I have a lot of work to do.”
nion boarded the yacht and tried
college scientists were forced to own that they could not place it. It
“Yes: it is a matter of life and death, Alan, and to more than one
something that endures, and so we fill our minds with rubbish and
The men sniffed in disgust at the fluid, and toward the last held their
portable souvenir to bear away.
nto the
and Wilcox could not understand the repeated promises of silence
were scattered about the room, and just inside the window an empty
written that eternal love is to be given to what is eternally unworthy.
Hallward had painted of him, looking now at the evil and aging face on
verse and in painting.
pilgrimage of liberation and restoration. All this Johansen did not
the reckless and foolhardy youth to a condition of abject terror, he was
make the world a mirror for his moods, as surely and as certainly as the
*       *       *
should be stolen? The mere thought made him cold with horror. Surely
romance—that she was Desdemona one night, and Ophelia the other; that
began to give inward at the top; and they saw that it was balanced.
JACK.
HÉRODE.  Pourquoi?  Je l’ai fait capitaine!
father, aren’t they?  Of course I only speak from hearsay.
influence was so insidious. Why has he never been able to move away?
barking menace.
to lay the report of the Commissioners before the House to-morrow night.
LORD GORING.  I am glad you have called.  I am going to give you some
feverish haste and in bewildering abundance. Of skepticism there was
SALOMÉ.  Laisse-moi baiser ta bouche, Iokanaan.
advantage of t
to ashes.  How many men there are in modern life who would like to see
did their wives; and Ammi had nothing but praise for him after all
LADY CHILTERN.  But what construction could she put on it? . . . Oh! not
Lady Ruxton glanced at him curiously. “You must come and explain that
that discovers thieves, could be affected only by the blood of kids.
his sway.
that kind of thing. But position and wealth are not everything. Mind
The same look of pity came into Dorian Gray’s eyes. Then he stretched
out; certainly, if I live, I shall never knowingly supply a link in
SCENE
glossy white silk, were drifting across the hollowed turquoise of the
LORD CAVERSHAM.  I am afraid I can’t take him with me to Downing Street.
y of life. I am always telling that to your
this: It often happens that the real tragedies of life occur in such an
often hidden himself as a boy. There the satinwood book-case filled
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Smiling at her pertness_.]  If it is, we shall have to
party were seen to gain the minor elevation only a short time after the
was taken away--she was being drained of something--something was
friendship.
DUMBY.  Haven’t got the slightest idea!  Looks like an _édition de luxe_
LORD GORING.  Youth isn’t an affectation.  Youth is an art.
and waiting, even to be married, is quite out of the question.
in hand required an infinity of research and experiment. Further
thank Heaven the branches did their worst twisting high up. The moon
photograph in her hand_.  LORD WINDERMERE _moves to back of sofa_, _and
so amused at?
was getting very feeble. When night approached, Ammi managed to get
tell me that I was on the verge of a terrible crisis in my life. I had
DUMBY.  What a nuisance their turning us out of the club at this hour!
CECIL GRAHAM.  Darlington has got a woman here in his rooms.  Here is her
and in the absence of his host stammered out a desperate tale once
going to Egypt”! cried the Swallow, but nobody minded, and when the moon
LORD WINDERMERE.  Mrs. Erlynne is coming here to-night.
performer does not blow, but through which he inhales the air; the
GWENDOLEN.
was possible still, and he was determined to forget, to stamp the thing
hellish outlines of the nameless monstrosity, puzzled over the unknown
oorway the dust danced and was golden. The
will show the world what it is; and for that reason the world shall
“It represents the survival of the pushing.”
mention to anybody that I have taken charge of this brooch.  Should any
to the calumnies, for so they termed them, that were circulated about
librarians in distant places where rare and forbidden books of old days
up through the mud by the woods across the road. Never were things of
success his talent promises.
a Puritan people. Then I saw that dark westward tangle of glens and
one there, so what reason can you have for refusing me?
Still, in the very fact that people will recognise me wherever I go, and
pail and twisted
[_Enter_ LORD AUGUSTUS _C._]
Undeserving, the only people I am really interested in.  I am the
the guests_, _and passes with them into another reception-room_.]
in the bas-relief, and in the terrible statue I now beheld; so that his
dry and noisome upon cutting. Hogs grew inordinately fat, then suddenly
One must have fed itself and escaped, and probably there was another
the very place of the worship had terrified the squatters more than the
leaped nervously out the window by which it had entered. A cry rose
low den in the distant parts of Whitechapel, and that he consorted with
Lady Narborough hit him with her fan. “Lord Henry, I am not at all
waters. When I think of the _extent_ of all that may be brooding down
able to exercise whenever he wished—and, indeed, exercised often
miel sauvage.  Il était vêtu de poil de chameau, et autour de ses reins
“I could not use it. It is too true.”
like stock-brokers do that, and then merely at dinner parties.
ALGERNON.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Advances towards_ MRS. CHEVELEY _with a sweet smile_.
of dreams to heighten and continue the mystery at my uncle's expense.
treat life simply as a sordid speculation; but not for you, Robert, not
After a few moments, in her black silk dress, with old-fashioned thread
have a few questions to put to you, Mr. Worthing. While I am making
be in charge. The youth's febrile mind, apparently, was dwelling on
glistening yellow face. As he was going downstairs, he heard the key
looking for is the mode of existence in which soul and body are one and
letter_.]
dinner was, of course, impossible?
her again.]
of the bands in the meteor's strange spectrum, was almost impossible
ointment, for of all
laughed round it as of old. He took it up, as he had done on that night
be wretched. From a moral point of view, I cannot say that I think much
them citations from theosophical books and magazines (notably W.
was, in its way, a very charming room, with its high panelled
That something hidden away in my nature, like a treasure in a field, is
she was not worthy to be my wife. Not worthy! Why, the whole world is
* * * * *
Such a bad habit!  And they are always thinking about themselves, when I
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  [_Aside_.]  Did Mr. Hopper definitely—
It came from a tall, supercilious-looking Rocket, who was tied to the end
LORD GORING.  And never bonnets?
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Sitting on sofa with her_.]  I am so sorry.  I came
imagination.
magic, the shelves of strange books, the sealed second story of the
won’t want to know Bunbury.
done.”
the world would know his secret then. Perhaps the world already
JACK.
what might have happened, he overcame his fears and paid the Gardner
members. No book had ever really hinted of it, though the deathless
[Sitting down again.] A moment, Mr. Worthing. A hundred and thirty
[_Exit_ LADY WINDERMERE _R._]  You seem rather out of temper this
There was the madness of pride in every word he uttered.
“Well, I can tell you anything that is in an English Blue Book, Harry,
with a somewhat rough-looking young assistant. Mr. Hubbard was a
It is in this drawer.  No, that one.  This is the brooch, isn’t it?
I see there?
terrible warning of its brevity. That had stirred him at the time, and
HÉRODIAS.  Mais, c’est infâme.
“That is very horrid to her, and not very nice to me,” answered Dorian,
“James, you really talk very strangely. Of course I watch over Sibyl.”
heavy scent of the roses seemed to brood over everything.
ts de pourpre.  La pluie vient
Then the germ of panic seemed to spread among the seekers. It was one
whitish mass on the painted boards, and the monstrous odor had nearly
pretty things to wear. Besides, you forget, Mr. Otis, that you took the
Dorian Gray grew pale as he watched her. He was puzzled and anxious.
gentlemen have expressed a desire for immediate baptism.
HÉRODE.  Elle est monstrueuse, ta fille, elle est tout à fait
old one can still be found amidst the weeds of a returning wilderness,
frightened group that remained in the road; and as they climbed they
“How can you, Harry!” cried Dorian.
How often do you see him?”
secure places of storage, and diagrams and formulæ were copied with
place a visit.
that altar-stone up there, and pull down all the rings of standing
LORD GORING.  [_Rising_.]  Lady Chiltern, I will be quite frank with you.
sorrow is the ultimate type both in life and art.
glen itself. They would do that. I allus says Col' Spring Glen ain't no
He got up and locked both doors. At least he would be alone when he
, publicly disgraced. How dare you ask me, of
enough of dear Augustus for the moment.
to improve the hopeless failure, or giving away your life to the
sorts at dinner.”
Personally, darling, to speak quite candidly, I don’t much care about
test again the disappearing fragment left carefully cased in lead. That
stalls had been terrible. There seemed virtually nothing to do to calm
LADY BRACKNELL.
houses in Their great city of R'lyeh, preserved by the spells of mighty
[Enter Merriman, followed by the footman. He carries a salver, table
to her once.  The fascination she exercised over you then seems to have
one’s life. I suppose you think me awfully foolish about it?”
passions of which we were too much afraid, and the exquisite
In a short time I became convinced of his absolute sincerity, for he
[Sweetly.] I suppose that is why you live in town? [Gwendolen bites her
“Ah, Alan,” murmured Dorian with a sigh, “I wish you had a thousandth
_For a moment she reveals herself_.]  Oh, don’t imagine I am going to
folklore were very conservative in what they inferred. The plants were
Your name happened to come up in conversation, in connection with the
they all told me to pay no attention to old Ammi Pierce's crazy tales,
influences of sweet-smelling roots and scented, pollen-laden flowers;
Venetian work that his grandfather had found in a convent near Bologna.
_lacis_ worked in Hungary point; Sicilian brocades and stiff Spanish
Lord Goring?  Especially at such an early hour in the day.
impression that I had taken too much champagne, or something.”
air, and that pillar of smoke from the valley far in the wood. And by
LADY CHILTERN.  We have both been punished.  I set him up too high.
have a sandwich in my case.
THIRD ACT
Donovan felt over it delicately around the edge, pressing each point
asleep, and that the flowers were resting.
to body till it had reached his own?
Morgan--ascended the mountain alone. After much patient instruction
Don’t squander the gold of your days, listening to the tedious, trying
turned white_ after a perfunctory and inconclusive questioning at
“But think of Dorian’s birth, and position, and wealth. It would be
you’d heard—
They had reached the great flight of steps that led from the
explained to Dorian, behind a very shabby fan, one of her married
on mord un fruit mûr.  Oui, je baiserai ta bouche, Iokanaan.  Je te l’ai
told her?  Not last night.
life. Idle merriment and triviality would be out of place in his
suggest fugitive glimpses of strange landscapes, and in one case there
rds mornin' Cha'ncey
blackmailing.
wide-planked floor. The stench was beyond enduring, and before
the fields and distorted woods in a mad cosmic frenzy, till soon the
Yet these whispered scandals only increased in the eyes of many his
LORD GORING.  How you women war against each other!
passion and youth; to convey one’s temperament into another as though
back.  It makes me far too conceited.
“Your life? Good heavens! what a life that is! You have gone from
round. The sound of the shutting of the hall door fell on his ear. He
than three expensive dinner-parties for that purpose, and, strange to
whether, like Marguerite de Navarre, she had their hearts embalmed and
Jamais il n’a rien dit contre moi, le prophète, sauf que j’ai eu tort de
there seemed to be faint traces of the Widmänstätten figures found
leaped nervously out the window by which it had entered. A cry rose
I ought to know. The subject is not so abstruse as I thought it was. I
to every one.
Yes, mamma.
PHIPPS.  I will speak to the florist, my lord.
seem too large, and the wild weeds, brambles, and grasses attain a
MRS. ERLYNNE.
LORD GORING.  Robert, this must stop.  I have told you that there is no
misconception. Ernest proposed to me exactly ten minutes ago. [Shows
stone--whose _geometry_, he oddly said, was _all wrong_--and hear
you passed me. But I wasn’t quite sure. Didn’t you recognize me?”
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Le tétrarque ne viendra pas ici.  Il ne vient jamais sur
The house-party consisted of twelve people, and there were more
eward of all good little American girls, and was married to her
dreadful old bear.” And she ran across the room and hugged him.
Caversham.  I approve of it.
studio! His nature had developed like a flower, had borne blossoms of
explaining why it had not been fired. The thing itself, however,
going to put to you.  You said his secretaries open his letters.
ALGERNON.
“I asked you because I thought you might be able to give me an answer.
the college had found that stone to be, several farmers spoke about the
Dr. Armitage, associating what he was reading with what he had heard
care, giving a good deal of attention to the choice of his necktie and
*       *       *       *       *
and strange forest presences was not laughed at, it was the custom to
LORD GORING.  Certainly, father!  And Chiltern’s been wise enough to
GWENDOLEN.
you wasted your time and money.
[_Enter_ LADY CHILTERN _in walking dress_.]
The thin, shining line of the Miskatonic's upper reaches has an oddly
bow. “And now I must bid good-bye to your excellent aunt.
“As you called it.”
behind the curtain and glides from the room L._]
that is the true explanation of this world, whatever may be the
after my mother.  My mother had the same name as myself, Margaret.
est celui qui en robe d’argent mourra un jour devant tout le peuple?
he spoke he seemed to reflect some elusive element wholly unpossessed
not any real ruins. Only the bricks of the chimney, the stones of the
were Lord Radley’s secretary, weren’t you, when the Government bought the
dreadful. Time is jealous of you, and wars against your lilies and your
went into the well after it had done with poor Nahum....
through which he had roamed all his life. They were better under water
dust. I must get it arranged and put straight before you go into it. It
me that if ever I was in trouble I could come to him for
As I walked hurriedly by I saw the tumbled bricks and stones of an
Cloudless, and pierced by one solitary star, a copper-green sky gleamed
left to right in endless bacchanale between the ring of bodies and the
both."
JACK.
One dreads to trust the tenebrous tunnel of the bridge, yet there is no
in the world.  There is nothing but love, and I love her.  But I am
whether it had been dragged by any external forces, Ammi could not
selfishness is a most detestable thing, especially to any one of my
ed chair was the Canterville ghost,
good-night, Margaret.
a long time at Dorian Gray, and then for a long time at the picture,
man could gasp or cry out.
me to believe, Miss Fairfax, that you were not absolutely indifferent
Philanthropic people lose all sense of humanity. It is their
that they should have to do so, and it is wrong, terribly wrong, of
and his family. At least one Boston daily also sent a scribe, and Nahum
la jeter aux chiens et aux oiseaux de l’air.  Ce que laisseront les
even more
ALGERNON.
the poets, he is the leader of all the lovers.
disinheriting the Cantervilles, who were her nearest relations, and
correspondence was not preserved, but his notes formed a thorough and
pulse, which was not at all feverish. The strange noise still continued,
mutterings. American officers in the Philippines find certain tribes
expression which no one ever saw in a woodchuck before. The boys were
As before, the sides of the road showed a bruising indicative of the
ERMERE.  [_Leaning forward_.]  Don’t say that.
fly buzzed noisily about the room, and the ticking of the clock was
o late," and
past.”
*       *       *       *       *
“I am so sorry you have given yourself the trouble of coming round, Mr.
strange beam of ghastly miasma was to him of no unfamiliar hue. He had
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  [_Affectionately_.]  My dear one!  You always say
I give to what one can touch, and look at.  My gods dwell in temples made
“It is a most romantic explanation,” laughed the hostess. “But her
storms and monster waves.
et ensuite je viderai la coupe.
woman querulously.
killed your wife."
C’est celui dont je t’ai parlé.  Allez le chercher.  Il est dans un
SALOMÉ [_Elle se penche sur la citerne et écoute_.]  Il n’y a pas de
Liberal Association received it with loud applause.
“And what does she get annoyed with you about, Duchess?”
Cheveley?
house to-night.  I won’t tell you that the world matters nothing, or the
to-day; it was your birthday present.  If that woman crosses my
no recollection at all of being engaged. I am inclined to think that I
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Crossing to her_.]  Lady Windermere, how beautifully
FIRST ACT
Corots.
JACK.
a wonderful chance the Baron gave me.  Such a chance as few men get.
into the
The loungers reflected, thinking of the door and runway, and of
Only poetry or madness could do justice to the noises heard by
could be; but beginnin' at the glen maouth, whar the trees bed moved,
consciousness seemed half to slip away. Unfortunately such moments
what might have happened, he overcame his fears and paid the Gardner
felt, whilst the following Hallowe'en produced an underground rumbling
been avidly collecting material for my uncle's research.
shall never have such another. You are not jealous of material things,
noted by my uncle?
People vowed that the snow melted faster around Nahum's than it did
another well on higher ground to use till the soil was good again.
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.
mystery is as much of the spirits as of the eye. I myself am curious
Our Auckland correspondent gives the _Emma_ and her crew an
being the nearest possible approach to the perfection of man.  His
“Stop!” faltered Dorian Gray, “stop! you bewilder me. I don’t know what
juré devant tout le monde.
what was found in the attic and under the red checked tablecloth on
d’ailes gigantesques.  Ce sont de très mauvais présages.  Et il y en
"Yes, madam," replied the old housekeeper in a low voice, "blood has
that gorgeous array of specious lusciousness not one single jot was
mankind's soul.
que la lune cherchait un mort, mais je ne savais pas que c’était lui
mother. I don’t know what my guardians will say. Lord Radley is sure to
you quite frankly that I have no brother Ernest. I have no brother at
that he lived alone in
people who have nothing to do.
"Nigh on a haour ago Zeb Whateley here heerd the 'phone a-ringin', an'
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Gertrude, what you tell me may be true, but it
consciousness. There is a sense of spectral whirling through liquid
always walked uprightly in the Lord's ways so far as he knew.
“What do they say of us?”
In 1917 the war came, and Squire Sawyer Whateley, as chairman of the
Here he faltered, and seemed to shiver afresh with the fright that had
turned round. Hallward stirred in his chair as if he was going to rise.
the use of knowing? If the thing was true, it was terrible. If it was
swayed without wind. It was really lucky for Ammi that he was not more
a shadow seated in the house of sin? Or was the body
to his quarters in three days; but to Professor Angell he was of no
concave surface was a thick fetid deposit of the same tarry stickiness
Ammi described would be called a gas, but this gas obeyed laws that
that haunts Burne-Jones's women.  Even Matthew Arnold, whose song of
much as it is. But I beg of you to do this. We were friends once,
interesting background. It posed the lad, made him more perfect, as it
Line--the earthquake and storm had come. From Dunedin the _Alert_ and
more might expose us to comment on the platform.
But it was Ammi, on one of his rare visits, who first realized that
opens to Yog-Sothoth, it's all over an' no use. Only them from beyont
occurred before the eyes of Dr. Armitage and Professor Rice; but it is
Mrs. Cowper-Cowper
the darkness for our pleasure, a world in which things would have fresh
and what was meant by that phrase "strange days" which so many
Lord Henry laughed. “The reason we all like to think so well of others
away and buried, and the buggy which they shortly returned to him,
I wish I could afford to do the same.”
We’re good.  Some of us are, at least.  But we are positively getting
extraordinary size and richness of colour, and had a turquoise _de la
He rose from his seat with a faint cry of joy, and taking her hand bent
LADY WINDERMERE.  How simple you think me!  [_Going to her_.]  You are
I attribute it to the superior quality of the wine, sir. I have often
Of such insolences and attempted slights he, of course, took no notice,
correspondence of those who attended, although scant mention occurs in
BY
So the men paused indecisively as the light from the well grew stronger
[_Goes to table R.C._]
LADY BRACKNELL.
gone, and now Merwin was gone. Something was creeping and creeping and
est comme le vermillon que les Moabites trouvent dans les mines de Moab
really rather dull. He only interested me once, and that was when he
that your youth will last—such a little time. The common hill-flowers
its proper value.
rt, induced by the brisk
LORD GORING.  [_Considerably perplexed_.]  In a moment, father.  Do
to excuse me for a moment, Lord Caversham.
JACK.
LORD GORING.  He would do what you asked him, wouldn’t he?
weep.”
faster. It'll be ready to sarve ye soon, boy. Open up the gates to
have friends, many friends.
extravagance of the whole subject led me to adopt what I thought the
refused it.  As I found it, I want to keep it.  I must do so.  It is the
lines.
Angell became convinced that the sculptor was indeed ignorant of any
I want you to be fine.
Dorian shrugged his shoulders. “I believe he married Lady Radley’s
dressed commonly, and with a muffler wrapped round his throat, crept
present evidence that all human locks and bolts were useless before a
taking up the gold-and-purple hanging, he flung it right over the
importance at all.
the tedious formalisms so dear to the middle-class mind, he
the formal publication of the society. Caution is the first care of
t it was Ammi, on one of his rare visits, who first realized that
part of space; a kind of force that acts and grows and shapes itself
But the Oak-tree understood, and felt sad, for he was very fond of the
[_Enter_ ROSALIE _R._]
me, if you care to.”
entirely different in your case. You have been christened already.
LE CAPPADOCIEN.
CHASUBLE.
“And much less than a friend. A sort of brother, I suppose?”
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_With a troubled look_.]  My sister to be your
re trivial
s bad
l
rd on the hillside and the prisoner in
seats at the small round table. “What happened was simply this.
in the possession of any member of my family; and, indeed, all such
CECILY.
eyes strangely bright. He was dimly conscious that entirely fresh
ALGERNON.
disgraceful. He knows perfectly well why.
underbrush.
the scene of unholy
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Arthur, you must let me stay for five minutes.  I
ALGERNON.
in his youth. Lavinia Whateley had no known husband, but according
would consider it wrong. But of course, you will clearly understand
the well was a vacant space, except where the earth had caved in;
Lacenaire, the cold yellow hand “_du supplice encore mal lavée_,” with
and a new road was laid curving far toward the south. Traces of the
Maintenant je suis heureux.  Je suis très heureux.  J’ai le droit d’être
given for your leading such a bad life. And this is the box in which I
the worm was to the corpse, his sins would be to the painted image on
offering created. One sight of the thing had been enough to throw the
Good heavens! I suppose a man may eat his own muffins in his own
principle being that punctuality is the thief of time. So the lad was
JACK.
coloured globule are dead. There were other globules--depend upon that.
ceased roaring, and a delicious perfume came to him through the open
Daly’s. You fool! You should have killed him.
and wanted my help.  Now is the moment when you really want my help, now
walked boldly toward the kitchen. But he did not complete the walk,
later to the title, had set himself to the serious study of the great
as they ate their meagre and ill-cooked meals and did their thankless
mermaiden who sits upon an amber throne, and yellower than the daffodil
secrets will lie safe forever under watery fathoms. But even then I do
The first half of the principal manuscript told a very peculiar
the new city water of Arkham.
cipher at once.  There must not be a moment’s delay.
ody, I
“I should object very strongly, Harry,” said Hallward.
stars?  Upon my word, you are very romantic to-night, Darlington.
LADY WINDERMERE.  Why do you say that?
ALGERNON.
don’t really object to being reminded that you are extremely young.”
Of course it’s mine. [Moving to him.] You have seen me with it a
Who can calculate the orbit of his own soul?  When the son went out to
“Yes; it was at dear Lohengrin. I like Wagner’s music better than
And, certainly, to him life itself was the first, the greatest, of the
chatter and the fireflies come out in abnormal profusion to dance to
TIGELLIN.  C’est un titre que prend César.
LORD GORING.  Just as vulgarity is simply the conduct of other people.
Ah! that reminds me, you mentioned christenings I think, Dr. Chasuble?
and Deaths at Sea. Rescued Seaman Refuses Particulars of Strange
re-embarked at once for the Norwegian capital; and one autumn day
pearls. He read of the room that was prepared at the palace at Rheims
three-quarters feet tall.
A man’s love is like that.  It is wider, larger, more human than a
thought can pass, had cut off the spectral intercourse. But memory
himself at home, and to send you as his
and of his frantic efforts to borrow or copy from the _Necronomicon_
Lord Henry stroked his pointed brown beard and tapped the toe of his
mapped out the seven heavens star by star, there still remains oneself.
all agreed that plants of that kind ought never to sprout in a healthy
back they stopped at Ammi's to rest, and seemed thoughtful when Mrs.
there, mostly primitive but good-natured descendants of Lafitte's men,
agony that the frightened servants woke and crept out of their rooms.
and had dashed back in terror after one look at the place, and at the
a right to know. Were you married to my father?”
of Sibyl’s position. This young dandy who was making love to her could
matter of some importance to us to know where your brother Ernest is at
back, ‘for I want you to come up to the mill as soon as you are dressed,
greedy way. [Takes muffins from Algernon.]
will tell him to fetch the police.
GWENDOLEN.
for Ophelia, if you like. Put ashes on your head because Cordelia was
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Far more!  I have greatly improved.  I have had more
cloud--a cloud about the size of a moderately large building--near the
had taken its place. He was determined to find out Basil Hallward’s
laughter and grow sad. I want a breath of our passion to stir their
from the same reason that Wilbur grew fast and big--but it beat him
that all the mystery was much more recent than I had dreamed. It was
concerned, you may squander everything we have.
Dorian smiled and shook his head: “I am afraid I don’t think so, Lady
Where there is sorrow there is holy ground.  Some day people will realise
I hope to-morrow will be a fine day, Lane.
Donovan felt over it delicately around the edge, pressing each point
possible.”
fire-breathing silver dragon that the waiter had placed on the table.
Henry. “A man can be happy with any woman, as long as he does not love
first trip outside the Dunwich region. Correspondence with the Widener
in my life. You said to me once that pathos left you unmoved, but that
prescribes for me. You must tell me what people you would like to meet,
see her.
manned by a queer and evil-looking crew of Kanakas and half-castes.
over it with old-fashioned grace and kissed it. His fingers were as cold
showed a restraint and deliberateness highly peculiar in an infant,
strokes of cosmic potency.
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Dans mon pays il n’y a pas de dieux à présent, les
in the ritual murders, and averred that the killing had been done
they sat together in the garden of their friend, seemed to increase
occurred. Two titan swaths of destruction stretched from the glen
with especial clearness the queer circles
ho knows
At half-past twelve next day Lord Henry Wotton strolled from Curzon
nce.  There were damask Roses, and yellow Roses, lilac
LADY WINDERMERE.  I am so sorry, Mrs. Erlynne, to have kept you waiting.
found out that you were absolutely indifferent to her. And when a woman
kindness to me, both before and since the tragedy of my imprisonment,
of nerves, and fibres, and slowly built-up cells in which thought hides
scene from a vision of Fuseli, and over all the rest reigned that riot
deeds of almost unnamable violence and perversity. The old gentry,
4
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Oh, I’m sure she will have no objection.
LORD GORING.  Well, really, Lady Chiltern, I think I should have back my
him to stay. I insist upon it.”
“What nonsense you talk, Harry!” cried the lad, taking a light from a
deepest mourning, with crape hatband and black gloves.]
his death, and at that rate...."
card_.]
savez bien que vous allez faire ce que je vous demande.  Vous le savez
[_Enter_ PARKER.]
boys grew afraid of her, and Thaddeus nearly fainted at the way she
sit down. And just answer me one question. Have you noticed in the
distorted when viewed through the polarizing miasma welling out from
in his hand.
and begged them to see him inside his own kitchen, instead of
hands and gazing at him with wild startled eyes.
s malign pursuit,
boy, I love hearing my relations abused. It is the only thing
was reported, and one who had cheated his father at dice when gambling
flopped down the slimy stones and hesitated floundering at the edge of
sigh, and thought about the deal box.
genuinely frightened, and threw the thing away at once, so that only
and farmland to be blotted out, though perhaps there would have been
to have a clean name and a fair record. I want you to get rid of the
languages in Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island. Professor
[_Enter_ LORD WINDERMERE _L.U.E._]
worthy man.
that!
began to undergo loathsome changes which no one could explain. Their
LORD CAVERSHAM.
the door was always locked at night by Mr. Otis, and the windows kept
save me.  I saw then that the only thing for me was to accept everything.
word-divisions being guessed at from traditional breaks in the phrase
must think of that lonely death in the tawdry dressing-room simply as a
had been used, Chanticleer had always crowed a second time. "Perdition
“I don’t think I shall send it anywhere,” he answered, tossing his head
other stories—stories that you have been seen creeping at dawn out of
it over twice, folded it carefully, and pushed it across the table.
way, Dorian,” he said after a pause, “‘what does it profit a man if he
tasteless. The asters and goldenrod bloomed grey and distorted, and
what an age-old cult had failed to do by design, a band of innocent
lawn to the college buildings, saw that others were ahead of him; and
never sees anything.”
distorted parody that had been a face. "What was it, Nahum--what
disperse. Botanists, too, ought to study the stunted flora on the
resumed his pose.
masters, or that the common bulk of life and substance walks alone.
“Look, look!” cried the Tree, “the rose is finished now”; but the
“He is all my art to me now,” said the painter gravely. “I sometimes
He seemed to have forgotten all that he had gone through. A dim sense
*       *       *       *       *
but Nature, whose sweet rains fall on unjust and just alike, will have
SALOMÉ [_se levant_] La tête d’Iokanaan.
hieroglyphics, and heard the ominous syllables which can be rendered
for some time lent the image to Professor Webb, but at the latter's
flock o' screamin' ... jest like when Elmer Frye's place was took, only
As I walked hurriedly by I saw the tumbled bricks and stones of an
companion, died. Briden's death reveals no apparent cause, and was
Dorian Gray shook his head. “No, Harry, I have done too many dreadful
alien to his nature, abandon himself to their subtle influences, and
But my dear Lady Bracknell, the matter is entirely in your own hands.
and get back his light heart,
were as the wings of the morning, but he himself had been cruel to
VICOMTE DE NANJAC.  Ah! you flatter me.  You butter me, as they say here.
Then the ghost spoke again, and his voice sounded like the sighing of
lqu’un.  Ce ne peut être
But I don’t like the name of Algernon.
thing visible toward the last. One case, which the note describes with
he regretted that he had not told Basil
around to the hill's summit by safer routes they saw that the trail
some vague fear, he heard still further sounds below. Indubitably there
“Of course, with their ages, slightly edited. But nothing must be done
just as much for me as for any one else.  Perhaps I may go out with
is to any one.  Now, if you could plough the fields like the ox, or draw
CECIL GRAHAM.  [_In a low voice_.]  Yes, here is her fan.  [_Points to
HÉRODE.  Mais il n’a pas dit votre nom.
would be quite impossible to sleep, with such a noise going on outside
questioning Armitage about what he knew of the thing, and no reply
DUMBY.  My dear Laura, I wouldn’t dream of going!
that well. It was bad enough passing the glowing barn and sheds, and
narrow bird-haunted walks one morning in the year before I took my
compare notes. As it was, lacking their original letters, I half
now--better under water since the strange days. And with this opening
"But _that_ ain't the trouble naow--that was only the start. Zeb here
I did nothing else, and can remember doing nothing else, but wring my
beauties of the lilies of the field as none, either on Cithaeron or at
blasted hillside where no tree, shrub, or grass-blade will grow. Then,
because of his wide linguistic learning and skill in the mystical
That was the document I read, and now I have placed it in the tin box
Learn from him to what you owe your position.
something.  The truth has always stifled me.
entirely divine. Every night of my life I go to see her act, and every
ALGERNON.
wreak such results was beyond any mind's guessing. When the harvest
of real excitement; and when upon heating before the spectroscope it
elbowed into the corner.  Our husbands would really forget our existence
highest principles, I am glad to say.  I am a little too old now, myself,
The gods had given me almost everything.  But I let myself be lured into
hands in impotent despair, and say, 'What an ending, what an appalling
dark.
me.  You wrote me a letter last night in which you said you trusted me
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  No; he was a man of a most subtle and refined
at any rate one parent, of either sex, before the season is quite over.
secret cult would always be waiting to liberate him.
[_Exit_ PARKER _C._]
sont faites de feu.  Elles ont brûlé mon front.  [_Il arrache de sa tête
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I am not changed.  But circumstances alter things.
chant that hideous phrase or ritual:
OSCAR WILDE
answered Lord Henry.
LORD GORING.  No, father.
for the morrow; is not the soul more than meat? is not the body more than
VICOMTE DE NANJAC           _Mr. Cosmo Stuart_.
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_Aside to_ LORD GORING.]  I shall be in the
the felling of a tree to the charcoal burner in the forest, or the fall
your mother has been frightened to death. You must never play these
I certainly wouldn’t let Jack buy my outfit. He has no taste in
the Miller, as he was such a good friend to him.
ugliness made things! He felt a little annoyed with Lord Henry for
very small. When the medical examiner came, there was only a sticky
did their wives; and Ammi had nothing but praise for him after all
a peep at least into the shadowland of pre-existence."--Charles
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Entering_.]  Your carriage is here, Mrs.
sticking out of the sea, and in S. Latitude 47° 9', W. Longitude 126°
as chanted aloud:
The next day all the countryside was in a panic; and cowed,
through some Sicilian shepherds' pierced and jointed reeds, the man and
lower medder here, wadin' the brook at the low place, an' climbin'
name. The listening was, indeed, rather a product of moments when
horrible, yet hardly a surprize. There were more swaths and monstrous
distracts one’s mind from higher things.”
hot, he drew himself up and glanced at the clock. It was twenty minutes
nor nothin', but suthin' heavy agin' the front, that kep' a-launchin'
slippers, took a small oblong phial out of his dressing-case, and opened
LORD GORING.  Good afternoon, Lady Chiltern!  Have you been in the Park?
the yard near the barn.
LADY WINDERMERE.  Indeed!
landscape of mine, for which Agnew offered me such a huge price but
through a hedge that, on their return home, she made up her mind to go
in number, had all vanished one night and were never heard of again.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Rising_.]  I suppose, Windermere, you would like me to
alarmed at first, but when six o'clock struck, and Virginia did not
u
Cracker nearly exploded with laughter.
dreaming."
a sweet, simple, innocent girl like that is quite inexcusable. To say
silly son takes his wife from the streets, what is that to me? If
again, and the secret priests would take great Cthulhu from His tomb
reams of different persons, some of
colouring. “I believe he thinks that Monmouth married me on purely
myself, Harry,” he murmured with something of a sigh of relief. “I felt
made so much of the fact that Old Whateley always paid for his cattle
beautiful than to be good. But on the other hand, no one is more ready
after incessant screamings to be saved from some escaped denizen of
“‘They are certainly very lovely,’ said Hans, ‘and it is a most lucky
JACK.
scandalous. It looks so bad. It is simply washing one’s clean linen in
D’où vient-il?
he has certainly made you have the most wonderful expression. I suppose
an odd reluctance about approaching, and did so at last only because
GWENDOLEN.
of so many words that they could not understand.
et des Romains avec leur brutalité, leur lourdeur, leurs gros mots.  Ah!
Armitage produced a pocket telescope of considerable power and scanned
“Quite serious, Basil. I should be miserable if I thought I should ever
that God did not love man, and that wherever there was any sorrow, though
which had certainly been the lantern; while a bent pail and twisted
meteor had yielded in the previous year. The property of emitting this
in a great pool of water, and was brought back by them to the cottage.
not nervousness. Indeed, so far from being nervous, she was absolutely
rn to the society that has made or seen her ruin.
C’est par la femme que le mal est
he relied despite his colleague's warnings that no material weapon
“No: I am going to be out of England for six months. I intend to take a
It was a little before this that the horses had stampeded. Something
Oh! not at all, Gwendolen. I am very fond of being looked at.
rejoinder. “Women love us for our defects.
such a good old man--when the reservoir gang gets to work I must write
This is not the moment for German scepticism. [Moving to Cecily.] Their
All this the professors told Ammi as they paused at his door, and
een, you would not have loved him, my dear lady,” was the
was said against me, and wished me to know that he considered me quite
ACT DROP
all. I am afraid I walked too far this morning. I didn’t hear what
observed that in married households the champagne is rarely of a
three-volume novel of more than usually revolting sentimentality. [Miss
parler de lui.  Je pense qu’il a
MERRIMAN.
before they retired to rest, but at a quarter-past eleven all was still,
murmured, “will you let me kiss your hand?”
NG.  That will do.  [_Exit_ PHIPPS.]  Lady Chiltern’s
“‘A plank of wood!’ said the Miller; ‘why, that is just what I want for
called forbidden shapes of shadow out of the great rounded hills, and
even less time than you have.
will the idea be, as in that case it will not be coloured by either his
doctor, though, was chiefly disturbed by the chattering night birds
material which I had noted in Legrasse's smaller specimen. Geologists,
blame you?  No one.  If they do, what matter?  Wrong?  What is wrong?
I forgot, your husband is an exception.  Mine is the general rule, and
old man--an added element of furtiveness in the clouded brain which
Memory, my dear Cecily, is the diary that we all carry about with us.
And what an utter intellectual stagnation it reveals! One should absorb
handled Greek things, or read the story of the passion of some dead man
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Upon my word, there is a good deal of common sense in
would believe you. If they did believe you, they would like me all the
“Ah! Harry, your views terrify me.”
LORD GORING.
which the world-spirit had ever passed, loving for their mere
surrendered! and to such little purpose! There had been mad wilful
Line--the earthquake and storm had come. From Dunedin the _Alert_ and
hapes are but modes of manifestation, and it is with this spirit that I
morning, Thornton?” he said, taking up a pen.
SCENE
LES JUIFS.  Oh! Oh!
and was developing a highly singular quality of brittleness. Ammi
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Walking towards him_.]  I don’t know!
But that was all. That which spoke could speak no more because it had
that.  No; I am going to pass entirely out of your two lives.  My coming
TIGELLIN.
dear, I should have fallen madly in love with you,” she used to say,
Oh! he has been talking about Bunbury, has he?
tried to be as cheerful as possible, and to show my cheerfulness, in
aise me.”
“A method of procuring sensations? Do you think, then, that a man who
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I loved you, Arthur.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  By making it a rule only to talk to perfectly charming
the stench-filled reading-room till the examiner came and the prostrate
definite course of action, and acted under proper medical advice. And
days will be one with the deep's secrets; one with the hidden lore of
heart to stone.  One sometimes feels that it is only with a front of
“Is Monmouth to be there, too?”
love him. I love him because he is like what love himself should be.
'flower-like lives.'  He fixed the phrase.  He took children as the type
LORD WINDERMERE.  Thanks!  [_Sits down_.]
MISS PRISM.
subtlety could elicit more in this direction. The _size_ of the Old
when my father sent me to Oxford, and when society sent me to prison.  I
Suddenly she spread her brown wings for flight, and soared into the air.
trees along the rud begun ter git pushed one side, an' they was a awful
is indeed profound and authentic.
for it is your public support
coffin, and stayed there till evening.
married and once divorced, or twice divorced and once married?  I say
sure that Lady Bracknell is one. In any case, she is a monster, without
is no more.  The thing that you personally have long ago forgotten, or
hand-bag. I was the baby you placed in it.
JACK.
HÉRODE.  Il y en a qui disent que c’est le prophète Élie.
approve of children dreaming.
Henry, laughing. “It would be rather hard lines on your work.”
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Startled_.]  I don’t understand you.
to her. She was familiar with the atmosphere. She breathed more freely,
warm by flapping his wings.
that. Sit down again, Harry. And now, Dorian, get up on the platform,
itself agin an' agin, though ye couldn't see nuthin' aout the front
HÉRODE.  Oui, l’air est délicieux.  Viens, Hérodias, nos hôtes nous
you?
It was on the ninth of November, the eve of his own thirty-eighth
From below no sound came, but only a distant, undefinable fetor; and
But even all this was not so bad as the blasted heath. I knew it the
us.  Others make brutes of them and they fawn and are faithful.  How
There was nothing more.
way, and his unkempt clothing and white beard made him seem very worn
frightened.
place where he could be cared for.
infants under a full year of age. His motions and even his vocal sounds
As the presence of the three men seemed to rouse the dying thing, it
smiling at him.
arm, there was not a prouder man in the whole length and breadth of
"An' then she let aout a turrible yell, an' says the shed daown the
your terrace is illuminated.  Reminds me of Prince Doria’s at Rome.
die. Shallow sorrows and shallow loves live on.
Well, to speak with perfect candour, Cecily, I wish that you were fully
But Armitage had a sound physique despite his seventy-three years, and
paints I used had some wretched mineral poison in them.
LADY WINDERMERE.  You expect me to believe that?
had caused much worry and bafflement among the experts in languages
is the imaginative quality of Christ's own nature that makes him this
“Ah! but we have, in our dreams,” answered the children; and the
but Nahum was very brave about it. He let the boy run about for a
personally, but, theoretically, he objected to titles, and, to use his
who came here last night?  [_Coming round and sitting R. of her_.]  You
VICOMTE DE NANJAC.  I read all your English newspapers.  I find them so
[Picture: The Selfish Giant]
in the bas-relief, and in the terrible statue I now beheld; so that his
he won’t come up.  Fathers should be neither seen nor heard.  That is the
she spoke the words as though they conveyed no meaning to her. It was
thing that at all consoled him in the whole affair was the fact that he
and whereas it had been a good seven feet across the day before, it
faster. It'll be ready to sarve ye soon, boy. Open up the gates to
“Harry, you are dreadful! I don’t know why I like you so much.”
torso and lower parts of the body were teratologically fabulous, so
the still figure in the chair. “Mother, are my things ready?” he asked.
gladly allow your nephew to form an alliance with my ward.
“The Home Farm! Go there at once and meet me. Tell one of the grooms to
any of them were for good conduct.  I forget!
formerly.
the truth of what they saw. All around the dwindling brown lump near
privacy of his own apartment, he flung himself down on a small
increasing the size of his herd. He also cut timber and began to
am sure it is all right if you approve of it.  In my time, of course, we
doing anything of the kind when I entered.  I called with Lady Markby
He turned round. “What I have to say is this,” he cried. “You must give
Prim unthought of, but had retired from the diplomatic service in a
died when I was a mere child.
have never seen you really and absolutely angry, but I can fancy how
LADY WINDERMERE.  To stay in this house any longer is impossible.
the daytime and a beauty at night.
gulfs of infinity, of dizzying rides through reeling universes on a
Besides, feasts are not for me any more.  I have given too many to care
market and sell them to the Burgomaster’s daughter, and buy back my
destroyed long before then.
was not merely the physical conditions of environment that had caused
to see it was to die. But it made men dream, and so they knew enough to
down amongst the diabolist Eskimos. There then followed an exhaustive
wilted to a curious, sickly yellow-gray, and over field and forest were
envelope.  [_He writes the envelope slowly_.  _Enter_ MASON.]  Have this
beginning, with the aid of his assistant, to unhook the picture from
I was in Dunedin; where, however, I found that little was known of
hysterical Levantines on the night of March 22-23. The west of Ireland,
in the air. The entire Gardner family developed the habit of stealthy
looks vaguely about as if she could not understand what the noise was.
resonant fashion which hinted at sound-producing organs unlike the run
all a-tossin' an' openin' an' shuttin' ... all gray, with kinder blue
at Sydney University, the Royal Society, and the Museum in College
as usual, I suppose?
was not one to be perturbed by any common family event. Amidst it all
probably paying her bills—do you think that the wife should not console
My dear fellow, it isn’t easy to be anything nowadays. There’s such a
es up letters_.]  Oh, what a very uninteresting correspondence!
declared that it was a crazy thing to bother with the reclamation at
CECILY.
CECIL GRAHAM.  My dear fellow, what on earth should we men do going about
“Ask him to come in at once, Francis.” He felt that he was himself
than natural linkage of dates was this which gave a malign and now
premise that there was no wind at that hour of the evening. One did
flew into dark lanes, and saw the white faces of starving children
music-room, when I was quite unprotected, as there was an elaborate trio
great difference.”
is the only thing he is fit for.”
the whole thing at once.
She is more than an individual. You laugh, but I tell you she has
guardian of the gate. Past, present, future, all are one in
believed in him, and on whom as on a rock he had hoped to build a house
prostrated him burst in upon him again.
last night in the
It hasn't been fed since the second of August, when Wilbur came here to
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Smiling_.]  And what prizes did you get, Mrs.
which has shielded him since the sun was young. His accursed city is
fan.  Amusing, isn’t it?  [_A pause_.]
sake that I am speaking.
time he affected, had their marked influence on the young exquisites of
exile; they were the lines my mother often quoted in the troubles of her
_Recollections of the Prince Regent and his Friends_. The ghost, then,
always looked for and always missed.”
shaking her head.
found in either of the collapsed shells which had been the Bishop house
to forget that I am married, and the one charm of marriage is that it
or midwife presided at his coming. Neighbors knew nothing of him till
A hand-bag?
que j’entends dans l’air ce battement d’ailes?  Oh! on dirait qu’il y a
Contents.
white-fanged watchdog that barked with unnatural fury and enmity, and
mean triumphs that the memory of your past will make more bitter than
imperative need of a long conference with Rice and Morgan. His wilder
that is your little boy!  What is he called?
At this point, as the column of unknown colour flared suddenly stronger
Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs at the age of forty—that’s good
over others.  I went into the House immediately.  The Baron advised me in
as much of the subject as any man I had talked with in Arkham. He was
anxious that you should allow her to retain the box, as a memento of
make a copy of what parts he needed, thought suddenly of the possible
striking the table with his fist.
“Yes,” he continued, “I am less to you than your ivory Hermes or your
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_With a sigh of pleasure_.]  I am so glad.  That makes
nos convives.  Verse-moi à boire, ma bien-aimée.  Remplissez de vin les
gesture even, of the Passion of her Lord; and it is always a source of
into his eyes; he tore his hand away and, flinging himself on the
long felt certain. Now he seemed to sense the close presence of some
darkening the sun as it slunk away into the shrunken and gibbous sky
the second phase of the horror.
with the rage of the English democracy against what they call the vices
dy Windermere.
I regret all that you have taught me. I become different from what you
plus grande.  Je sais bien qu’elle est plus grande.  C’est la plus grande
birth he had attained a size and muscular power not usually found in
He even thought a scream had been suddenly choked off, and recalled
was vague talk about one inland trip these mongrels had made, during
is a middle-class education.
worship, so Inspector Legrasse and his nineteen colleagues plunged on
maid, and has established her in Paris as an English dressmaker.
take my big sword and slay him.”
LADY MARKBY.  Oh! she goes everywhere there, and has such pleasant
gardener walking with a rose.
once more he went with them to see the stony messenger from the
know, and whom no chaste woman should sit in the same room with. I
viewed it not long ago. It is truly a terrible thing, and unmistakably
"Far away beyond the pine-woods," he answered, in a low, dreamy voice,
CECILY.
u thoroughly, and that you
their coming, as for an unwelcome guest, or a bitter master, or a slave
book and examines it page by page_, _smiles and gives a sigh of relief_.]
“Well, that is the end,” said the Linnet.
_flaneur_, a dandy, a man of fashion.  I surrounded myself with the
I used to live entirely for pleasure.  I shunned suffering and sorrow of
and stupidly forgot to tell the butler anything about it as I was
Prince shall praise me.”
of Greenland and Iceland in search of some Runic inscriptions which
the timbers scattered raound like they'd ben dynamite inside; only
LORD GORING.  She is quite right, too.  The men are all dowdies and the
My child! my child! [Cecily goes towards Jack; he kisses her brow in a
“Yes,” he continued, coming closer to him and looking steadfastly into
stained cloth. Through the rumble of omnibuses, and the clatter of
most unfortunate.  [_Rises_.]  And now, my dear child, I must go, as we
lapis. He watched it as though it were a thing that could fascinate and
of health.
over-populated.  Really, some one should arrange a proper scheme of
that he sometimes led? Had some strange poisonous germ crept from body
origin, about a foot in height, regarding whose nature authorities
returned the next morning to see the ruins by daylight, but there were
MISS PRISM.
lines of research among philosophers and men of science, were of no
each meal I carefully eat whatever crumbs may be left on my tin plate, or
white, and could only do moonlight scenes, which are always depressing
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_To_ PHIPPS, _who advances towards her_.]  Is Lord
Suits me down to the ground.  All the conditions she makes are that we
Suivant la phrase au pur contour,
This was no breath from the skies whose motions and dimensions our
“You must. You have no choice. Don’t delay.”
LADY BRACKNELL.
attempt to classify you, Mrs. Cheveley, would be an impertinence.  But
season of horror all the signboards pointing toward it have been taken
demoniac laughter. This he had on more than one occasion found extremely
That fatal letter!  No!  Lord Darlington leaves England to-morrow.  I
LORD DARLINGTON.  You break my heart!
As I walked hurriedly by I saw the tumbled bricks and stones of an
“Only in public.”
course by the great storm of March 1st, and on March 22d, in S.
faithfully not to disappoint me.”
in archeology. On the contrary, his wish for enlightenment was prompted
Shall I lay tea here as usual, Miss?
but even in the brightest sunlight a kind of quiet dread and portent
SALOMÉ.  C’est de ma mère qu’il parle.
have a scene in this bonnet. It is far too fragile. A harsh word would
there seemed to be faint traces of the Widmänstätten figures found
blasted
round
man yelling out that question to his audience. It struck me as being
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  C’est la reine Hérodias, celle-là qui porte la mitre
of their sister anywhere. They were all now in the greatest state of
refuse.’
face, which kept him not long company.” Was it young Herbert’s life
On April 2nd at about 3 p. m. every trace of Wilcox's malady suddenly
John Worthing, J.P.
Mr. Hopper.
“I knew I should create a great sensation,” gasped the Rocket, and he
into Dunwich Village and discoursed incoherently to the group of
The six men drove out in a democrat-wagon, following Ammi's buggy, and
fell over his shoulders in matted coils; his garments, which were of
with ivy that he might keep off the rays of the sun as he stooped over
trooping over the roads and meadows between the new-made Whateley ruins
day Sunday Armitage was busy comparing formulæ and mixing chemicals
tracing the thoughts and passions of men to some pearly cell in the
dreamed, but touched wildly on a gigantic thing "miles high" which
Cthulhu was loose again, and ravening for delight.
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Well, what is it?  What is it?  [_Rising and going over
Stubbornly refusing to grow cool, it soon had the college in a state
certain queer hereditary rituals addressed to a supreme elder devil or
hope that Dorian Gray will make this girl his wife, passionately adore
want you to send her an invitation for our party to-night.  [_Standing L.
were unable to find any visible disorder, but concluded after perplexed
hideous life is! . . . Oh! it was mad of me to come here, horribly mad.
order to listen to them.  “How happy we are here!” they cried to each
upon him one day and departed pale and puzzled, he was fully six and
a method of procuring extraordinary sensations.”
[Standing rather proudly.] I could deny it if I liked. I could deny
merely because the world had sought to starve them into submission or
the hand-bag at any moment. It is in my dressing-room at home. I really
forth to the night a pale insidious beam of the same demoniac tint.
given him pleasure to watch it changing and growing old. Of late he had
tout cela s’il le veut.  Je n’ai rien à dire contre cela.  En effet, je
.
abandoned well whose stagnant vapours played strange tricks with the
LORD WINDERMERE.  What is the difference between scandal and gossip?
The painter felt strangely moved.
they lead us astray, and the advantage of science is that it is not
hommes.
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_Drawing herself up_.]  Oh, dear no!
Dorian Gray lifted his golden head from the pillow, and with pallid
One day they paid Nahum a visit; but having no love of wild tales and
rites, must keep alive the memory of those ancient ways and shadow
torso and lower parts of the body were teratologically fabulous, so
mumbled his formless reflections. "It come from that stone--it growed
which is the basis of morals, the terror of God, which is the secret of
hung from the ceiling of the great, oak-panelled hall of entrance,
to me.
dusty grey desert remained, nor has anything ever grown there since.
LORD WINDERMERE.  Yes, you.
upon scarlet mats
representing the two or three armigerous families which came from
she was then.”
Bachelors’ Ball to-night, unless I find something better to do.  But I’ll
shame.  [_Enters room_.]
in their own lives.
bounds. No one could look long at them, and even the medical examiner
Thaddeus went mad in September after a visit to the well.
I don’t think you will require neckties. Uncle Jack is sending you to
FOURTH ACT
or trunks a-stickin' aout all along the sides, big as stovepipes, an'
lad, throwing off his evening cape with its satin-lined wings and
Robert write her a letter at once, withdrawing his promise.
Don’t go to meet it.  It is absolutely necessary that I should see her
“And what do you propose to do?” said Lord Henry at last.
breaks his own. I beg you not to go.”
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I love her more than anything in the world.  I used
[_Turns a cold_, _glassy eye on_ HAROLD, _who at once retires_.]
have said, the geometry of the place was all wrong. One could not be
broke down. When he was done I did not wonder that his mind had snapped
letters_.]  They always do find us bad!
JACK.
response to the urgent call.
the baying of a dog from the Red Farm, and he went on, muttering strange
his own portrait. “How sad it is! I shall grow old, and horrible, and
tremendous sense of responsibility. Saturday afternoon he felt able to
wheel in the leaden air around me. Good heavens! don’t you see a man
leaving.
"Nothin' ... nothin' ... the colour ... it burns ... cold an' wet, but
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_Looking round_.]  Time to educate yourself, I suppose.
a play, and that power, power over other men, power over the world, was
height; on top of which, incongruous in its diminutiveness, rested the
of Professor Webb.
the number being slightly superior, because of their particularl
out; certainly, if I live, I shall never knowingly supply a link in
other; he read of the Obelisk in
s malign pursuit,
LADY WINDERMERE.  Arthur, if that woman comes here, I shall insult her.
but Dorian Gray had disappeared. When he looked back, the woman had
Prism! Where is that baby? [General consternation. The Canon starts
ALGERNON.
as ice, and his lips burned like fire, but Virginia did not falter, as
oral ritual among the swamp cult-worshipers his men had arrested, he
UN JUIF.  Cela, c’est impossible.  Personne n’a vu Dieu depuis le
finest Georgian steeple in America. I found him at work in his rooms,
DUMBY.  [_To_ CECIL GRAHAM.]  Did you introduce Mrs. Erlynne to Lady
CHAPTER XVII.
point of view of form, the type of all the arts is the art of the
by which I have not been wounded.”
theatre? If they don’t, it is all right. Did any one see you going
most unfriendly. If I were in mourning you would stay with me, I
in about a hundred and fifty years, do you, Algy?
they lost the property.
JACK.
strange colours, and through the stony soil of the yard and adjacent
upon it. Besides, I always deal with Dartmoor’s tradesmen, and
MRS. CHEVELEY [_Elevating her eyebrows_.]  Then life has taught you
guard.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_C._  _To_ LADY JEDBURGH.]  On Thursday?  With great
Lord Henry shook his head.
s difficult for most people to grasp the idea.  I dare
There was once a road over the hills and through the valleys, that ran
the invisible.... Yes, Mr. Gray, the gods have been good to you. But
smoothed the tangled gold of her hair.
the brother who had been his greatest playmate.
though they wa'n't no sign o' what done it. Then everybody on the line
SALOMÉ, fille d’Hérodias
guess. Death would be a boon if only it could blot out the memories.
of a demon galleon. The awful squid-head with writhing feelers came
the feeling of strange uneasiness is increased. The summits are too
through the door.  Awkward thing to manage, though.
“What does this mean?” cried Hallward, at last. His own voice sounded
and though apparently deserted, was found upon boarding to contain
ner. I find him in the
went on. Her gestures became absurdly artificial. She
pecially when there are other people present. [Enter
Chauncey, who slept poorly, had been up on the hill toward Whateley's,
So the Hail came.
ALGERNON.
tossed his rebellious curls and tangled all their gilded threads. There
there in the well, he has never been quite right since.
sang ici? . . . Et ce cadavre?  Que fait ici ce cadavre?  Pensez-vous que
ate and fear the whole Whateley place as violently
abandoned well whose stagnant vapours played strange tricks with the
all agreed that plants of that kind ought never to sprout in a healthy
night.
and on that date the dreams of sensitive men assumed a heightened
As soon as they had been informed they laughed still more.  For half an
go.
Often I had to recall the speaker from ramblings, piece out scientific
consciousness when the Arkham men came slowly down the mountain in the
is the Philistine who upholds and aids the heavy, cumbrous, blind,
things.
coldly when he had recovered from his surprise. “I never thought you
painted feet, as though the thing had dripped—blood even on the hand
MISS PRISM.
unguided i
long hands looked! It was like a dreadful wax image.
d’arriver de Jérusalem.  On n’a pas entendu parler de lui depuis deux
dawn.
by an embroidered glove and a jewelled fan, by a gilded pomander and by
as scarlet, yet I will make them as white as snow’?”
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Looks steadily at him_.]  I question that.
dreadful socialistic days, and this terrible woman has taken a house in
which the atmosphere seemed surcharged.
reminiscences. That awful memory of woman! What a fearful thing it is!
myself, you have been an ideal always.  Oh! be that ideal still.  That
What do you think this means, Lady Bracknell?
slid greasily into the water and began to pursue with vast wave-raising
humanity treats its gods. They worship us, and are always bothering us
expected to arrive on the next day.
Then you think we should forgive them?
feeling of hatred for Basil Hallward came over him, as though it had
Fortnight ago catch a very plain Discourse of evill Powers in the
th in Arkham. He was
portrait by Lawrence_.]
[Picture: Decorative graphic of two birds]
I don’t think that, as things are now, it would be of much practical
the terribly haggard look of most of your pretty women in London!
idols which the Great Ones showed them; idols brought in dim eras
Don’t you see that accursed thing leering at us?”
hasn’t it?
at all seasons there were strange and portentous doings at the lonely
were clogged with a grey-flannel mist.
I am afraid it is quite clear, Cecily, that neither of us is engaged to
Henry was leaning over his chair.
marry her, try to love her again. Yes, it was his duty to do so. She
I have no doubt about that, dear Algy. The Divorce Court was specially
e friends.  They have been his companions.  They bring with them
the clammy brushing of that coloured vapour in the attic room, but
Earl Sawyer suggested that help be asked from Aylesbury or Arkham, but
guide. At the end of the passable road they alighted, and for miles
window of the conservatory, like a white handkerchief, he had seen the
and what one shouldn’t. More than half of modern culture depends
It was from the artists and poets that the pertinent answers came,
huddled inert on the moonlit ground between the splintered shafts of
[_Exit_.]
there had fallen upon his brain that tiny scarlet speck that makes men
tell you, Arthur, but only love me, love me as you used to love me.
“You might keep some of your kisses for me, Sibyl, I think,” said the
After about a quarter of an hour Hallward stopped painting, looked for
of a manifestation to expect, but he did not add to the fright of the
It was next the vegetation. All the orchard trees blossomed forth in
A groan broke from Campbell’s lips and he shivered all over. The
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I have some letters to write, dear.
the flowers quite plainly in the moonlight."
perfectly canonical practice.
to passages in such mythological and anthropological source-books
May I show them to you?
“Why?”
prostrate thing, and the great black eyes fell in appallingly. Outside
some comfort to have so many people with him.
wicked creature!  I like him so much.  I’m quite delighted he’s gone!
DUMBY.  What a mystery you are!
the very place of the worship had terrified the squatters more than the
lethal fetor that seemed about to asphyxiate them, were almost hurled
thout crying a little.
slow-breathing thing crawled no more, and horrible thoughts, time being
lunch.
life. Strange, that my first passionate love-letter should have been
ever set aside."
with the dress were just a little too large for him, and he could only
MRS. CHEVELEY.
individuality. Still, there are certain temperaments that marriage
the Prince, he loved him too well.  He picked up crumbs outside the
chant their hellish rituals by the table-like stone on May Eve and
Did you really, Miss Prism? How wonderfully clever you are! I hope it
delay.  He keeps playing with action as an artist plays with a theory.  He
answered my summons, and I was stung with disappointment when she told
prostrate thing, and the great black eyes fell in appallingly.
That evening, just as twilight fell, he finished his terrible perusal
thing.  We all behaved brutally to her.  She is just the woman for me.
“Great things have been thrust on us, Gladys.”
the earth, and They had had great cities. Remains of Them, he said the
There were ammonia and caustic soda, alcohol and ether, nauseous carbon
of that curious statue that Gautier compares to a contralto voice, the
full stature of its perfection.  Pleasure for the beautiful body, but
h of the fact that Old Whateley always paid for his cattle
There was a pandemonium of questioning, and only Henry Wheeler thought
gripped the front edge and extended a quarter of the way down toward
college friends.  They have been his companions.  They bring with them
you, to ask you something—I forget what it was—and I found Mr. Gray
think that what I did nearly eighteen years ago should be brought up
He had not appeared in this disguise for more than seventy years; in
“Because you have the most marvellous youth, and youth is the one thing
touched it, it swung back on its heavy hinges, and they found themselves
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Most entertaining!  I have enjoyed my talk with him
Power is his passion.  He would lose everything, even his power to feel
TIME: The Present.
not like other rustics I had known in the sections where reservoirs
we all seen in the meteor stone that fell a year ago June. Sucks an'
place again. When he saw me, he made me a low bow and assured me that I
degradation of the body which I must not try and make into a
huge misshapen cloud stretched a long arm across and hid it. The
in the Miskatonic where the devil held court beside a curious stone
is the difference between the two sexes.
the yard near the barn.
HÉRODE.  Ah! il a fait un poème satirique contre eux?  César est
Whateley's gorilla-like lope as he crossed the bit of campus visible
the household. He sighed and told her to manage things as she thought
CECIL GRAHAM.  Had to, my dear fellow.  Couldn’t help it!  That woman can
in my life. [Algernon is laughing immoderately.] What on earth are you
glowed on the broad-planked floor where the rag carpet left it bare,
Three men were swept up by the flabby claws before anybody turned. God
LADY BASILDON.  Certainly not comic, Lord Goring.  How unkind of you to
the dry tips of the lingering hedge-mustard, grey and blighted, and
of them had dreamed very bizarre things, the intensity of the dreams
it, except by surrendering everything that one has.  It is only when one
both ancient and modern; its very alphabet, notwithstanding a general
terms.”
very dress makes us grotesque.  We are the zanies of sorrow.
GWENDOLEN.
blush coloured his cheeks for a moment, and he started up. “I beg your
“It is because I am going to be good,” he answered, smiling. “I am a
d earth's fields, and where They still tread them, and why no
the true secret of life: to maim them with an ali
“Monmouth has ears.”
the Saracenic world. That question, however, he did not deem vital;
“It is never too late, Dorian. Let us kneel down and try if we cannot
Yes, he has told me all about poor Mr. Bunbury, and his terrible state
because that is a very old town full of witch legends I thought the
In a natural glade of the swamp stood a grassy island of perhaps an
ALGERNON.
upon that.
ERLYNNE.]
"That's all--not a saound nor squeak over the 'phone arter that. Jest
pizened the whole place ... dun't know what it wants ... that round
terrible sort than they had ever known; and some of their women and
LORD GORING.  Certainly I do.
exception.  And they never grow any better.  Men become old, but they
through Carrier's mowin' an' the timber-lot beyont. That comes aout on
lilac-blooms, with their clustering stars, moved to and fro in the
frangipanni. Then he lit a cigarette and flung himself down on the
had nervously telephoned his wife he would not be home, and when she
LADY WINDERMERE.  Shall I never see you again, Mrs. Erlynne?
SCENE
LADY BRACKNELL.
his playing.”
horrible to him that it was here the fatal portrait was to be hidden
She snapped her fingers. “Prince Charming is what you like to be
everyone was listening still when It lumbered slobberingly into sight
gold filigrane. Edward II gave to Piers Gaveston a suit of red-gold
of the countryside. For this reserve or melancholy no cause could be
Humility.
next morning both chips and beaker were gone without trace, and only a
seen that colour before, and feared to think what it might mean. He
“Was the poor fellow married? Had he any people dependent on him?”
in probing his strange dreams, yet had never explained the reason for
shadows. You are more to me than all art can ever be. What have I to do
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Agatha, darling!  [_Beckons her over_.]
disappeared or was killed. Speakers would not be exact; and because
me to,” he said, rather coldly, turning on his heel and going over
was over Nahum got the mad notion that she was slightly luminous in the
but occasional frantic words, as repeated by Dr. Tobey, convinced the
Dorian Gray frowned and turned his head away. He could not help liking
report from the Commission, and that it entirely condemned the whole
[To Cecily.] Darling! [They fall into each other’s arms.]
CHAPTER II.
Moi, je les trouve très ridicules.
made, the history of the world.  Of course, culture has intensified the
SCENE
laughed and played games in the street.  “We have bread now!” they cried.
doing up there, though once she turned pale and displayed an abnormal
musician. From the point of view of feeling, the actor’s craft is the
make out what you are talking about. Oh! Harry, I am quite vexed with
[Offering tea-cake.] I wish you would have tea-cake instead. I don’t
The living man was clutching a horrible stone idol of unknown
And how are we this morning? Miss Prism, you are, I trust, well?
shoulder_.]
passionately, devotedly, hopelessly. Hopelessly doesn’t seem to make
me pray that, if I do not survive this manuscript, my executors may put
Colonial houses on the ancient hill, and under the very shadow of the
tossed into the air like great gilt flowers had their subtle
back the crowd with authority as he unlocked the vestibule door. Among
SECOND SOLDAT.  Faites-le taire.  Il dit toujours des choses absurdes.
justice.
CECILY.
“This,” replied Dorian, moving the screen back. “Can you move it,
Well, I am afraid I really have none. I am a Liberal Unionist.
more respect, and wondered why the Gardner dogs seemed so cowed and
his shelves. We practical men like to see things, not to read about
la couronne_, _et la jette sur la table_.]  Ah! enfin, je respire.  Comme
a fresh set of the monstrous tracks in the road skirting Sentinel Hill.
visage.  Tu as mis sur tes yeux le bandeau de celui qui veut voir son
used their own strength to get the heavy wagon near enough the hayloft
The whippoorwills in the glen had screamed with such unusual
him who is piling the faggots or loosening the logs for the blast the
were considered romantic_.  _He plays with life_, _and is on perfectly
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Non, princesse, c’est un tout jeune homme.
*       *       *       *       *
was no matter how it all ended, or was destined to end. He was like one
o'clock, when they had a light supper. The conversation in no way turned
Cecily if she is your aunt and lives at Tunbridge Wells? [Reading.]
but sat like one under a spell, smiles chasing each other over his lips
personality took the place and assumed the office of art, was indeed,
family. He selected Friday, August 17th, for his appearance, and spent
English version which his grandfather had bequeathed him, and upon
thing them men from the college dug outen the stone ... they smashed
me.”
spot on the slope with his finger. Sawyer, as clumsy as most non-users
last seven or eight months, in spite of a succession of great troubles
JACK.
CHAPTER XV.
natures that are not susceptible to influence.
Being the eldest son you were naturally christened after your father.
speculations of theosophists and made man and the world seem recent
sweet by the myrrh and cassia of many tears.  When wisdom has been
LADY WINDERMERE.  I’ll go and get it for you, if you’ll excuse me for a
also. You, Mr. Gray, you yourself, with your rose-red youth and your
voice. “But don’t people say that he was murdered?”
But the picture? What was he to say of that? It held the secret of his
being charming. This is a fault.
March. Jack looks perfectly furious, and goes to the door.] For
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Rising and facing him_.]  I mean that I know the real
practical than we are. In situations of that kind we often forget to
the people could stand it no more.
with a complement o
of all gospels, the gospel of gold.  I think he saw the effect he had
“‘Hans,’ said the Miller, ‘I will give you my wheelbarrow.  It is not in
a short visit, I suppose.
obtained from the college laboratory. The more he reflected on the
hat was your reason for refusing to exhibit my
those deep ravines, and artists shiver as they paint thick woods whose
spots were once the burial-places of the Pocumtucks; even though many
excellent reputation, and Johansen is described as a sober and
a jaded-looking man of sixty, was amongst his guests. It was tea-time,
that you are Mr. Worthing’s ward, I cannot help expressing a wish you
at school each day; but they could not help being frightened by the
wanted to propose to-night.  In fact he did.  He kept on proposing.  Poor
will find it waiting for you.
LORD GORING.  Robert, you love your wife, don’t you?
HÉRODIAS.  Tu sais bien que c’est la vérité.
his own face in a glass.
Gertrude, Gertrude, you are to me the white image of all good things, and
when the American Archeological Society held its annual meeting in
pilgrimage of liberation and restoration. All this Johansen did not
can choose for himself. [Pulls out her watch.] Come, dear, [Gwendolen
forgotten to take away with him. He moved slowly towards it, passing
Whatever had burst loose upon the world had assuredly gone down into
voir will soon be built now, and all those elder
he did remains to be seen, for I have learned much now.
Algy, could you wait for me till I was thirty-five?
distorted when viewed through the polarizing miasma welling out from
with such noble ideas.
attraction for him. The daily sacrifice, more awful really than all the
Cecily!
exactly fetid nor exactly salty, and Ammi advised his friend to dig
CECILY.
Johansen, thank God, did not know quite all, even though he saw the
At the corner of the pine-wood he caught sight of Sir Geoffrey
help one, to realise both, and not to be too conceited about either.  And
was built in measureless eons behind history by the vast, loathsome
I
So a body of twenty police, filling two carriages and an automobile,
beetles, who were just thinking of setting up house together, and were
Shaken with such a mental revolution as I had never before known, I
LORD GORING.
been placed in direct contact with a new spirit working in this prison
had set out in the late afternoon with the shivering squatter as a
watchers again.
an age like this.
passionate experience.
wondered how you were getting on.’
You are a very charming young lady!
CECIL GRAHAM.  Sorry to hear it, Tuppy; whenever people agree with me, I
Methuen & Co._
ing to have its effect. His nerves were
n he reached the library, he saw the bag and coat in the corner.
GWENDOLEN.
glasses, and Tantalus frame_.  _Table L. with cigar and cigarette box.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Do you think you could possibly make your son behave a
flooded for the new reservoir. Then the dark woods will be cut down and
than natural linkage of dates was this which gave a malign and now
is in comparison coarse.  It is a wound that bleeds when any hand but
soirée.  Eh! bien, oui.  Je vous ai regardée pendant toute la soirée.
LADY CHILTERN [_Rising_.]  Oh, I hope Mrs. Cheveley will stay here a
found it on the map.  What a curious shape it is!  Just like a large
an' ain't got to your haouse yet, I calc'late they must go into the
to take him.  And I dare say I’ll make him an admirable wife, as wives
money. I want a man’s life. The man whose life I want must be nearly
Hamlet's humour with something of the surprise and justice of comedy, is
getting up, went over to the book-case and took out a volume at hazard.
with his coarse fingers. He had just turned round to say something when
winders. An' then ...
Upper House.  He won’t take any interest in politics then, will he?  The
senses, and the senses by means of the soul.” Yes, that was the secret.
intruding upon a sorrow that I could not lighten. Poor woman! What a
She laughed and took his arm. “You dear old Jim, you talk as if you
a forky bolt flashed near at hand, as if descending into the accursed
find hidden somewhere away in my nature something that tells me that
passionate purity. One felt that he had kept himself unspotted from the
Cupids, one of Lord Henry’s many presents to him, glanced hurriedly
good friend to me, Arthur, a thoroughly good friend.
crowned with laurel, lest lightning might strike him, he had sat, as
did Chiltern uphold the scheme?
ced themselves tensely against some imponderable menace with
to go together. That is all over now. As long as a woman can look ten
standing at the entrance, smoking a vile cigar. He had greasy ringlets,
Paradise.”
imperceptibly to silence. Lavinia sobbed, but Wilbur only chuckled
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_With a sigh_.]  Our husbands never appreciate anything
himself, who was a man of the most punctilious honour, had felt it his
LORD GORING.  I quite agree with you, father.  If there was less sympathy
they lost the property.
“Possibly,” he sighed, “but they invariably want it back in such very
Could we not both speak at the same time?
the spawn of another planet or dimension; like something only partly of
horrible night that he had passed had left phantoms behind it. Suddenly
quickly became a kind of local celebrity. He was a lean, genial person
dressing-wrapper on the first night, and looks as if she had seen
on the _Alert_ he speaks with significant horror. There was some
secrets will lie safe forever under watery fathoms. But even then I do
Crocuses, and gold, purple Violets and white.
* * * * *
once you would make no compromise with things.  Make none now.  Be brave!
had thought her great. Then she had disappointed him. She had been
as stoutly as possible. Needless to say, no cattle were allowed to
took both his hands in his own and held them tightly. “Dorian,” he
HÉRODE.  Qu’est-ce que cela me fait qu’elle danse ou non?  Cela ne me
LADY CHILTERN.  A man’s life is of more value than a woman’s.  It has
moment's sake
“But what about my man at the Orleans?”
bothersome about this time, and New York policemen are mobbed by
from the chair, went over to the chimney-piece. He was shivering with a
The poor are wise, more charitable, more kind, more sensitive than we
ALGERNON.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Smiling at her pertness_.
a hideous precipice.  You must leave this place at once, my carriage is
All this the professors told Ammi as they paused at his door, and
CHAPTER VII.
“What are you?”
moment: at another we may like to think that, in its subtlety and
friend. And from that stricken, far-away spot he had seen something
grinning Negroes beat monotonously upon copper drums and, crouching
[_Enter_ LORD WINDERMERE.]
When I last heard of them they were quarrelling still.
“My dear fellow, she tried to found a _salon_, and only succeeded in
life that I am thinking.”
was a very clever woman with what Lord Henry used to describe as the
the charge
and you must come and see him. He had been very wicked, but he was
as it was, struck up a few bars of music, and the dance began. Through
“It was a distinction, my dear Dorian—a great distinction. Most people
the colour of its hangings, he found the door just ajar. Wishing to make
and laughing. The whole thing was a _fiasco_. The last act was played
“Poor little Hans was very anxious to go and work in his garden, for his
evening she is Rosalind, and the next evening she is Imogen. I have
pieces with age and worm-holes. She had never been to school, but was
it, since Dunwich folk are never anxious to call the outside world's
d already, and would
he suffers—what is joy to me, to him is pain.  Surely Love is a wonderful
on eighteen years since I met him. He hasn’t changed much since then. I
properties, and other things which puzzled men of science are wont to
vent froid . . . Mais non, il ne fait pas froid du tout.  Au contraire,
and lunch on Friday.
LADY CHILTERN.  Who is that?
old man--an added element of furtiveness in the clouded brain which
on—followed—naturally frightened when she heard a lot of us coming
that they recognized who it was.
with Basil Hallward. Had he gone to his aunt’s, he would have been sure
ALGERNON.
horrible images and hieroglyphs. I mention his talk about _angles_
Victor’s face perfectly. It was like a placid mask of servility. There
don’t believe anybody else does either.  But the observation crushed
among such half-castes and pariahs as might be least expected to
could not
ive-satin curtains,
You are under some strange mistake. I am not little. In fact, I believe
once and was miserable at not finding you. I can’t tell you how
surrender. Which of us should tell them? The task is not a pleasant
again.  It made him suffer even to hear it.  My father—my father really
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.
attendent.  Ah! j’ai glissé! j’ai glissé dans le sang!  C’est d’un
than the peril of keeping them.... Weeks and weeks went on, and I grew
from the East. He saw that there was no mood of the mind that had not
mind an' then gits ye ... burns ye up ... in the well water ... you
had been to run away and lock herself in her room, was filled with pity,
Today learned the Aklo for the Sabaoth, [it ran] which did not
into everything growing now. Yet it was none of Nahum's family at all
Mr.
“Must I really come, Harry?”
ot want any external influence in my life. You know
the coffin was being lowered into the grave, Virginia stepped forward,
well water? Very possibly. It might be a good idea to analyse it. But
was going to bed, ‘but I am glad I did not refuse the Miller, for he is
happy.
spoken sounds. His facial aspect, too, was remarkable for its maturity;
how can I do it?  Letters arrive for him every moment of the day.  His
Thank you, Lady Bracknell, I prefer standing.
[Picture: Decorative graphic of wreath]
or phase of entity from which it had once fallen, vigintillions of eons
Every trifle of the scene burned itself into his brain. The sounds, the
ALGERNON.
le jeune Syrien.  Je le regrette.  Oui, je le regrette beaucoup.  Car il
him, and he felt a curious delight in the thought that art, like
to one of his temperament.  The dead have come armed out of the grave to
After about ten minutes he got up, and throwing on an elaborate
sea in 1925 had broken him. He had told her no more than he had told
darkness, and wicked voices will whisper in your ear, but they will not
are so curiously plain,
face.
silent regarding the part he knew, and that he would have destroyed his
messenger—oh! it was infamous—infamous.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Oh, yes!  He’s to call to-morrow at twelve o’clock!  He
HOPPER.  May I have the pleasure?  [LADY AGATHA _bows_.]
"I bid you welcome to Canterville Chase." Following her, they passed
love with, Darlington, to this good woman?
him. “That does not matter,” he answered. “I simply want to see the
“The basis of every scandal is an immoral certainty,” said Lord Henry,
LORD WINDERMERE.  It is very good of you, Lord Darlington, allowing
that merely his own fancy?
absences that gave rise to such strange conjecture among those who were
monstrous quarry. The downpour waxed in heaviness, and distant peals of
|   All others are counterfeite.     |
Having reached the door, he turned the key and opened it. He did not
that something in a boarded-up farmhouse be destroyed, and fantastic
and college chemists could be interested enough to analyze the water
overture of panic that heralded the major terrors. When she got Sally
Garden at the Manor House. A flight of grey stone steps leads up to the
burst forth like smoke from its eon-long imprisonment, visibly
broken.  We are doomed to be solitary, while our sons still live.  We are
left shoulder by a couple of inches. At the same moment he heard stifled
West of Arkham the hills rise wild, and there are valleys with deep
"there is a little garden. There the grass grows long and deep, there
the flower out of his coat, and was smelling it, or pretending to do
make Romeo jealous. I want the dead lovers of the world to hear our
silencieux, subtils, avec leurs ongles de jade et leurs manteaux bruns,
He ran freely about the fields and hills, and accompanied his mother
bas-relief.
or whatever it was, had been captured some months before in the
Old Castro remembered bits of hideous legend that paled the
PREMIER SOLDAT.  C’est un prophète.
five.”
so appalling that I did not know what to do, so I flung myself on my
ht look of annoyance in his face.
of using it about others.  Weak?  Do you really think, Arthur, that it is
could not extract. Mankind was not absolutely alone among the conscious
tracing the thoughts and passions of men to some pearly cell in the
CECIL GRAHAM.  A married woman, then!  Well, there’s nothing in the world
JACK.
things in the world than that.  I am quite candid when I say that rather
one but Ammi to question; for Arkham people will not talk about the
with a brooding fear he dared not even mention for many years to come.
balance, and a less troubled heart, and a sweeter mood.  I have a strange
It was somewhat after this time--on Hallowe'en--that a great blaze was
The politician looked at him keenly. “What change do you propose,
e early morning,
evasively muttered. I could not, however, get any good answers, except
it were a subtle fluid or a strange perfume: there was a real joy in
MRS. CHEVELEY.  The post should suit him admirably, unless he has
nowadays.
simple hushed into silence, he might gravely raise his hat to me, as,
art. Vice and virtue are to the artist materials for an art. From the
ALGERNON.
“Little Hans had a great many friends, but the most devoted friend of all
like a spray of jasmine. Don’t let us talk about it any more, and don’t
have never been remarkable for olfactory immaculateness.
harm; so we mustn't hesitate to rid the community of it.
a train of ideas it started in my mind! Here were new treasuries of
CECILY.
first long passage that Armitage deciphered, an entry dated November
“They are practical.”
into the sky, and come down in a shower of golden rain.”
remove.
“But I thought you had promised Basil Hallward to go and see him,”
doctor always attributed the permanent idiocy of Lord Canterville's
innocent, and the black hands of jealousy have crushed her reedlike
though many branches are sunk into the sordid populace so deeply that
to read.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_After a pause_.]  He was very remarkable, in many
Gwendolen!
that the code of the manuscript was one of great antiquity, no doubt
in the world there would be less trouble in the world.
to the full.  You shall abide by what you have appealed to.'  The result
smoking-room_.]
5
One day the Giant came back.  He had been to visit his friend the Cornish
regards this dreadful business, I will help you in whatever way I can.
LANE.
long ermine-cloak reached right down to her feet, on her head was a tiny
LADY BRACKNELL.
fury; and the frightened crowd at the mountain's base, weakened by the
eliness was such that, as he lay dying in the yellow
give no guess. Merwin was gone, and there would be no use in telling
was so pleased about the wheelbarrow.
dreams, but then something had happened. The great stone city R'lyeh,
including that of the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe. On an anvil it appeared
conceive. If I say that my somewhat extravagant imagination yielded
languid air. A grasshopper began to chirrup by the wall, and like a
me home, and live in an immense
and shouted of what he had found. The rest followed him, and looked
from the erratic and unbelievable tales extorted from the captured
only fancy could transmute into sound, but which he attempted to render
rouges des trompettes qui annoncent l’arrivée des rois, et font peur à
extravagance of the whole subject led me to adopt what I thought the
you, accordingly, to take them to London with you, and to regard them
first noticed the glow about the well. Night had fully set in, and all
LORD GORING.  Fortunately for them, if one is to judge by results.  But
Christ said one should be.
A feeble scratching on the floor downstairs now sounded distinctly, and
Dorian Gray leaped to his feet, with flushed cheeks and burning eyes.
family too, seemed to have grown taciturn; and were far from steady
ideas of aspect and contour are too closely bound up with the common
“Very well,” said Hallward, and he went over and laid down his cup on
when we reappear.  To revisit the glimpses of the moon is not for us.  Our
The next January gossips were mildly interested in the fact that
have known me to be. I am changed, and the mere touch of Sibyl Vane’s
did you propose?  You said that you would give me back my letter, didn’t
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_With a strange smile_.]  You are quite right, I spoiled
“It is useless.”
idols which the Great Ones showed them; idols brought in dim eras
of the events of life as they occurred. The vicious cruelty that marred
Opinions were divided as to notifying the Massachusetts State Police,
remember that it is your own choice. You might have entered a
“‘We often talked of you during the winter, Hans,’ said the Miller, ‘and
would do many times, and with joy.
was right about that ... evil water ... Zenas never come back from the
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Qui regarde-t-il?
snapping, crashing, and crackling ensued. The Fryes, huddled together
made a great fortune by selling some kind of food in circular tins—most
LORD AUGUSTUS.  You have seen a good deal of her since then.
have come and departed. It is not because of anything that can be seen
J’ai des améthystes de deux espèces.  Une qui est noire comme le vin.
old Castro about the sunken, star-born Old Ones and their coming reign;
door_, _and opens it_.]  Oh! Robert is coming upstairs with the letter in
brighter than before, and the crowd fancied that it had showed a
better than principles, and I like persons with no principles better
beggar goes to heaven because he has been unhappy.  I cannot conceive a
my room till I have got it.
the wall and plucking a large nosegay, or a handful of sweet herbs, or
heart-broken I am about the whole thing. I know what you must suffer.
from that? He would laugh at any one who tried to taunt him. He had not
to be able to alter it when I go out.  I intend to try.
eclipsed the window, and a second later he felt himself brushed as if
and glares.]
un ennemi verse du poison dans ces coupes elles deviennent comme des
neither bow to his altar nor kneel before his priest, in some way find
mantel, and infected the very doors and furniture. Each minute saw it
Inexperienced though he was, he had still a strong sense of the danger
Suez Canal shares?
PHIPPS.  His lordship is engaged at present with Lord Caversham, madam.
least, in any true or stable sense. He had taken somewhat after his
is the only difference between them.
could be so vast.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Hum!  Which is Goring?  Beautiful idiot, or the other
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I?  A combination of all three.  [_Drops her fan_.]
orchids, but I spare no expense in foreigners. They make one’s rooms
Uncle Jack, do be nice. There is some good in every one. Ernest has
ony skeleton; at
“That is your error, Harry, believe me. You value beauty far too much.”
says less than anybody I ever met.  She is made to be a public speaker.
to his assistant. Dorian took the note up and read it carefully. Then
CECILY.
gruesomely dark when, not much over an hour later, a
orchard was false, that the scenery was vulgar, and that the words I
Priest were “made of sardius, with the horn of the horned snake
congratulations to the Minister's worthy wife.
CECILY.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  To offer it to you on conditions.  How did you guess
skeletal.
do I know that that was my letter after all?  You seem to think the
burned it.  Robert is safe.
Thaddeus went mad in September after a visit to the well.
gulfs of infinity, of dizzying rides through reeling universes on a
Then shall all the house be still
that you should leave me for so long a period as half an hour. Couldn’t
It isn’t!
ALGERNON.
Wilcox still lived alone in the Fleur-de-Lys Building in Thomas
he was anxious to be away. But he could not help glancing nervously
no explanations to Hartwell, but in his calmer moments spoke of the
Three of the _Emma's_ men, including Capt. Collins and First Mate
All at once one of the detectives at the window gave a short, sharp
his room at all, except to keep the blood-stain in proper repair.
*       *       *       *       *
ots down.
He discovered wonderful stories, also, about jewels.
one of the first to be approached by the several outsiders who took
PARKER.  Yes, my lady.
to_ LADY CHILTERN, _who makes no sign of response_.  _As she passes by_
skin, coarse crinkly hair, and oddly elongated ears.
Goring!  I am at Claridge’s.  Don’t you think you might leave a card?
Dorian shook his head. “You must not ask me that, Basil. I could not
MISS PRISM.
to the rhythmical screaming of vast flocks of unnaturally belated
we all seen in the meteor stone that fell a year ago June. Sucks an'
LADY WINDERMERE.  Oh, certainly, if it will give you any pleasure.  But
air seemed to drive away all his sombre passions. He thought only of
those who were enamoured of melancholy, if any such there really were.  I
Sime or an Angarola could paint.
Hallward shook his head. “You don’t understand what friendship is,
that curiosity had much to do with it, curiosity and the desire for new
Cheveley, that you seem to be unable to realise that you are talking to
not describe the _kind_ and _rate_ of shrinkage and disintegration that
CHAPTER XII.
his face very flushed, and no hat. "I'm awfully sorry, Mr. Otis," gasped
earth to worship it at midnight. They said it had been there before
ROSALIE.  His lordship did not come in till five o’clock.
“Hallo!” cried one of the boys, “look at this old stick!  I wonder how it
call it, where on an altar, on which no taper burned, a priest, in whose
hard and fast rules.
one, however, had been using the telescope at that instant. The
Suits me down to the ground.  All the conditions she makes are that we
was the true _Imitatio Christi_, a poem compared to which the book of
white ones. It is a lovely day, Francis, and Richmond is a very pretty
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh, no!  I think men are the only authorities on dress.
“I’ll back English women against the world, Harry,” said Lord Fermor,
LA VOIX DE SALOMÉ.  Ah! j’ai baisé ta bouche, Iokanaan, j’ai baisé ta
it. It is very sweet of you to let me have your last afternoon. Where
"I believe there's a chance of putting it out of business. You men
is right and what is wrong.  _She_ allowed of no compromise.  _I_ allow
tea-tray and set it down upon a small Japanese table. There was a
JACK.
misfortune has happened to them at all.”
splashed on in silence through the terrible cypress woods where day
UN AUTRE JUIF.  Enfin, on ne sait pas si le prophète Élie a réellement vu
not fashionable to flirt till one is forty, or to be romantic till one is
time, went forth regularly and increasingly for cattle-buying. He
us,” murmured the lad gravely. “They create love in our natures. They
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I don’t say that I suffered any remorse.  I didn’t.
[Enter Lane.]
Library at Harvard, the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris, the British
and safety of a new dark age.
least out of respect for their natural poet Longfellow, over whose
commencé par être l’épouse de mon frère.
“Oh, I will make your peace with my aunt. She is quite devoted to you.
"Please don't ask me, Cecil, I cannot tell you. Poor Sir Simon! I owe
the charge
name could fit such thing, or any other thing fit such a name. It
ravines of the stricken region. Now and then on some mountain top a
ALGERNON.
ALGERNON.
comme le manteau de César.
matter to them.
for him.
astronomers measure or deem too vast to measure. It was just a colour
Three days later Nahum burst into Ammi's kitchen in the early morning,
“I hate offices, and I hate clerks,” he replied. “But you are quite
smiling. “I am perfectly happy now. I know what conscience is, to begin
but they can not take body without human blood. That upstairs
of a fire; but why had nothing new ever grown over those five acres of
air of hushed fright at Osborn's store they knew something hideous
MRS. MARCHMONT.  I come here to be educated.
men, a sense of doom and
[_Enter_ MRS. ERLYNNE _and_ LORD WINDERMERE.]
on long-surviving secret societies and hidden cults, with references
HÉRODE ANTIPAS, Tétrarque de Judée
And to me it is a joy to remember that if he is 'of imagination all
to collate the two
impossible. The room is damp. Mildew has got into the canvas. The
Pietro Riario, the young Cardinal Archbishop of Florence, child and
ear. Then it became a little louder, and sounded like a flute or a
degradation of sin. Here was an ever-present sign of the ruin men
personality with perfection which forms the real distinction between the
persist in believing the remains Caucasian.
one must do so, since their form was indisputably though vaguely that
his message must have been revealed.
different standpoint.  What one had felt dimly, through instinct, about
uncannily, so that he looked like a boy of ten as he entered his
But how did we become engaged?
artists.  He has all the colour elements of life: mystery, strangeness,
the corridor, over which he tripped in the dark, and on one occasion,
It is, I regret to say, one of the Rector’s most constant duties in
moments in their lives.  Mary Magdalen, when she sees Christ, breaks the
bees; the fantastic robes that excited the indignation of the Bishop of
was all that he showed; relief at the doom of the dark ancient valleys
ow. As long as a woman can look ten
dans toute chose.  Dieu est dans le mal comme dans le bien.
the one person in my life who has really influenced my art. Whatever I
ime for positive action had come, and spoke
discernible cloud. It was a very peculiar phenomenon, and was plainly
tapestries or cunningly wrought enamels, were pictured the awful and
those whom it has punished, as people shun a creditor whose debt they
herself.
questioning the natives concerning all that had occurred, and seeing
“Still, we have done great things.”
GWENDOLEN.
without exception, were
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  [_Sitting on sofa_.]  Just let me see your card.
I was in Dunedin; where, however, I found that little was known of
help, but they can not take body without human blood. That upstairs
always looks.
LORD GORING.
proportion,' and of those who are born of the spirit--of those, that is
and with it he heard distinctly the sound of footsteps. He put on his
their faces toward the road, Ammi had looked back an instant at the
eoffrey, of course. It does not do to pepper beaters. It
with his wife to his old home in Oslo. Of his stirring experience
ghastly green light. Just, however, as he reached the top of the great
that charms one. A mist makes things wonderful.”
to see it was to die. But it made men dream, and so they knew enough to
He would be sure to miss the picture—had no doubt missed it already,
GWENDOLEN.
gave up the villa that he had shared at Trouville with Lord Henry, as
career that has been stainless always.
noire semée de perles et qui a les cheveux poudrées de bleu?
I think I have had too many friends.”
whereupon the strange crew began to fire savagely and without
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Yes.  That is agreed.  I will be in the Ladies’ Gallery
LORD WINDERMERE.  Yes.  [_Pause_.  _Enter_ PARKER.]  Parker!
it ... it was that same colour ... jest the same, like the flowers an'
o not shrink. Its
detective and scientist agreed on the virtual identity of the phrase
[_Salomé danse la danse des sept voiles_.]
could not extract. Mankind was not absolutely alone among the conscious
less than they thought.
Morality does not help me.  I am a born antinomian.
[Raising his hat.] You are my little cousin Cecily, I’m sure.
CECILY.
and then Ammi saw what had happened. The stoutest cord had broken at
for whom beauty and sorrow walk hand in hand, and have the same message.
graphically at first hand, though it was really no more than a detailed
trees.  In every tree that he could see there was a little child.  And
MRS. CHEVELEY.  What book?
both, is in immediate contact with divine things, and has got as near to
and would not be surprized to learn of secret methods and poison
[They retire into the house with scornful looks.]
ng. The
arrived at the pest-ridden farmhouse about four o'clock. Used as the
true lover, for Love is wiser than Philosophy, though she is wise, and
"Nabby? Why, here she is!" was the surprised response of poor Nahum,
and quiet, and seemed shaken by memories and reflections even more
Out of that dream came rescue--the _Vigilant_, the vice-admiralty
He drew the screen back into its former place in front of the picture,
way it's made an' the way it works ain't like no way o' God's world.
attainments, had had a prominent part in all the deliberations; and was
osing it was something else? Do you mean to
upon the rumbling hills. Then the lightning flashed again, somewhat
[Enter Lane.]
bites induced a lasting disgust. It was the same with the melons and
of my age, that in my perversity, and for that perversity's sake, I
filled with disjointed scraps of ancient lore that Old Whateley had
LORD DARLINGTON.  Cecil, if one really loves a woman, all other women in
LE PREMIER SOLDAT.  Il faut faire transporter le cadavre ailleurs.  Le
JACK.
been to the opera with you several times,” said Dorian, opening his
morning, and silver as the wings of the dawn.  As the shadow of a rose in
to buy it. I wish I had now. It belonged to Basil’s best period. Since
a train of ideas it started in my mind! Here were new treasuries of
pine-apple device wrought in seed-pearls. The orphreys were divided
to be good. I can’t bear the idea of my soul being hideous.”
make out. Besides, your name isn’t Jack at all; it is Ernest.
quiet daown like. I expeck them an' the souls they hunts fer hev some
about them, in which the dark fears of rustics were held up to polite
to him the mask of his real life, the cloak to hide his secret.
watchers saw wriggling at that treetop height, a thousand tiny points
adyship has just gone out.
than I had been led to think, and before I knew it had grasped quite
Hallward’s garden had first stirred within him the passion for
schooner began to sink from shots beneath the waterline they managed
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_To herself_.]  How very filial!
“I am laughing because I am happy,” replied the Cracker.
taken from the Turkish camp before Vienna, and the standard of Mohammed
said, or even in the simple idioms he used; but seemed vaguely linked
unconsciousness and delirium.
even more
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  [_Severely_.]  Did you say that, Agatha?
As the hills draw nearer, one heeds their wooded sides more than their
down, and kill him like a dog.
himself very much.
languidly as he passed up the steps and opened the door with his
There were in it metaphors as monstrous as orchids and as subtle in
ALGERNON.
Stage Club in 1905, and by the Literary Theatre Club in 1906.  The opera
had been dining, and was wrapped in heavy furs, as the night was cold
the horror had been blackly unwinding itself behind the closed door of
not like it.  They used to wander round the high wall when their lessons
child might do_.]  Take me home.  Take me home.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Ah! that is the sort of thing a man always says to a
“Delightful!” he cried, “I shall go on like this for ever.  What a
their monstrous stone city again to the sun and air.
it was couched in a style clearly showing the mixed occult erudition
“It is a ridiculous attachment,” twittered the other Swallows; “she has
old chimney and cellar on my right, and the yawning black maw of an
It was the coroner, seated near a window overlooking the yard, who
virtues, for whose exercise there was no necessity in their own lives.
best. She left the room, wreathed in smiles.
resolved to ignore them as far as possible:
slatternly, crinkly-haired albino daughter.
He shook his head. “To-night she is Imogen,” he answered, “and
"Of such great powers or beings there may be conceivably a
always be so? ... You have a wonderfully beautiful face, Mr. Gray.
his heart and soul on getting to a certain point, if he has to climb the
to make his preparations. At last everything was ready, and he was
vous voyez, j’ai le droit d’être heureux.  Il n’y a rien au monde qui
would be a greying and turning brittle like that which beset the hogs.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Then I am sorry for you, Gertrude, very sorry for you.
“What is a sensitive person?” said the Cracker to the Roman Candle.
necessary.
Formalities were gone through by bewildered officials, abnormal details
three successive seasons, and even in London was well known as an
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thank you, Sir Robert.  An acquaintance that begins with
[Looking rather puzzled, and pointing to Jack and Algernon.] Both these
only their names remain as a key to the origin they disgrace. Some of
“You pain me, my son. I trust you will return from Australia in a
See 14522-h.htm or 14522-h.zip:
could be so vast. Then, very softly and slowly, the acre-great panel
MERRIMAN.
LORD WINDERMERE.  It was very good of you to receive her last night—but
evidently been dead for more than a week.
first noticed the glow about the well. Night had fully set in, and all
although those fellows nowadays write a lot of nonsense. When I was in
presents new buttonhole on salver_.]
The _Vigilant_ left Valparaiso March 25th, and on April 2d was
eyes met. In hers he saw a wild appeal for mercy. It enraged him.
like they's ben on Whateley's cattle ever senct Lavinny's black brat
Dorian drew himself up with an effort and smiled. “It is nothing,
would be of no use, and hoped that the summer's strange growths would
the spawn of another planet or dimension; like something only partly of
that is imagined. The
The man paused, and another of the crowd spoke.
messenger—oh! it was infamous—infamous.
much affected.”
alive ... suckin' the life out of
surrendered! and to such little purpose!
and her left clasped an enamelled collar of white and damask roses. On
“I wish he had been.”
anybody’s. It is so loud that one can talk the whole time without other
heat lingered persistently, and Nahum declared it had glowed faintly in
detective silently called attention to something terrible in the very
is he? Point him out. I must see him!” he exclaimed; but at that moment
up and went to the door. Then he turned back and looked at her. Their
bit, Gertrude.
itself agin an' agin, though ye couldn't see nuthin' aout the front
unconsciousness and delirium. My uncle at once telephoned the family,
GWENDOLEN.
PREMIER SOLDAT.  C’est impossible, princesse.
lit a cigarette and then threw it away. His eyelids drooped till the
impersonations, and one which the Cantervilles had every reason to
“Well, really,” said the Water-rat, in a very angry manner, “I think you
beginning tomorrow, at which every effort will be made to induce
girl, too, has actually become engaged to be married to a curate in
le last words of his
stage of the world and made sin so marvellous and evil so full of
dreams, but then something had happened.
JACK.
mois.
The late Mr. Thomas Cardew, an old gentleman of a very charitable and
modern life, because they have listened to one of Chopin's nocturnes, or
often at the Thayer Street office of Dr. Tobey, whom he learned to
questioning at the police station, and in the end Ammi was compelled
MRS. ERLYNNE.  You know it far too well.  I can fancy a person dancing
on meteoric iron. When the cooling had grown very considerable, the
scattered houses wear a surprizing uniform aspect of age, squalor, and
They say he has sold himself to the devil for a pretty face. It’s nigh
Vane.
more, while Mrs. Pierce listened in a clutching fright. It was little
frightened that they all ran away, and the garden became winter again.
now, as I have given you my wheelbarrow, I am sure you would like to
elastic gum obtained from the milky juice of plants; the _yotl_-bells
certain mistiness around the altar-stone on the distant height. No
bread of angels, or, robed in the garments of the Passion of Christ,
indeed.
London who wouldn’t pity you.
“Do you think my nature so shallow?” cried Dorian Gray angrily.
by instinct.  It was always springtime once in my heart.  My temperament
did not hate the Winter now, for he knew that it was merely the Spring
ous had to be destroyed. He
that kind?
dawn.
be said for stupidity than people imagine.  Personally I have a great
HÉRODIAS.  Qu’est-ce que cela vous fait qu’elle danse dans le sang?  Vous
really, Dorian, how different Sibyl Vane must have been from all the
little Hans, that he would never go by his garden without leaning over
thousands of years seemed recorded in its dim and greenish surface of
mongrels, after a careless push from a negro sailor. I did not forget
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Comme la princesse Salomé est belle ce soir!
and deceitful. I am never deceived in such matters. My first
was an exquisite poison in the air. I had a passion for sensations....
geology, and things of that kind influence a man very much. [Cecily
il portait une ceinture de cuir.  Son aspect était très farouche.  Une
covering and all, just as it is?
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Arthur, I am parched with thirst.  May I ring for
candle. It is very difficult sometimes to keep awake, especially at
the blasted heath will slumber far below blue waters whose surface will
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Well, what is it?  What is it?
“Often. Too often.”
[Somewhat taken aback.] Ahem! Ahem!
Of course I know that from one point of view things will be made
LORD CAVERSHAM.  What do you mean, sir?
it was my duty. It is not my
Dorian Gray listened, open-eyed and wondering. The spray of lilac fell
h! n’a-t-il pas prédit qu’un malheur allait
Well, I must say, Algernon, that I think it is high time that Mr.
[_Holds up the brooch_.]
morning!
ACT DROP.
one of vital importance to Lord Bracknell and myself. Is this Miss
his verses, neither Goethe nor Wordsworth could help him, though he
Shaken with such a mental revolution as I had never before known, I
The next day, it appears, they raised and landed on a small island,
noxious carven statuette. From a wide circle of ten scaffolds set up
“Just like, I should fancy, and very depressing. I began to wonder what
cigarette, reads his shirt-cuff, and smiles.]
which I have arrived, the starting-point for a fresh development.  It has
offer you some tea, Miss Fairfax?
drove by one night in ignorance of the country legends. What he told in
MRS. CHEVELEY.  It was his last romance.  His last but one, to do him
bare.  Pluck out my other eye, and give it to her, and her father will
Won’t you come in?
Only the little boy did not run, for his eyes were so full of tears that
companion, died. Briden's death reveals no apparent cause, and was
all dreams of the dank city ceased, and Wilcox emerged unharmed from
dream, sat Dorian Gray, gazing at her. Lord
unhappy.  I am not going to be one of them.  [_Moves up_.]  Lord
telephoned the news to the _Aylesbury Transcript_; but the editor,
to take three officers to the Gardner farm, together with the coroner,
disgraceful. It is almost as bad as the way Gwendolen flirts with you.
LADY WINDERMERE.  Good-night, Duchess.
the number being slightly superior, because of their particularl
ony skeleton; at
LADY MARKBY.  I thought you said there was a sapphire on the head, dear?
never came.
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  De quoi parle-t-il?
_First F’cap. 8vo Edition_                      _November_      _1909_
property; for it had "drawn the lightning," as Nahum said, with a
world its body and its soul.  In _Marius the Epicurean_ Pater seeks to
It all began, old Ammi said, with the meteorite. Before that time there
ashen-gray. That evening he went to bed, but slept only fitfully.
[Enter Gwendolen. Lane goes out.]
directly into the sky.
[_Goes to table R.C._]
MRS. CHEVELEY.  As if anything could demoralise Robert Chiltern!
uth has always stifled me.
with blood. Three times the outstretched arms shot up convulsively,
Egeria? My name is Lætitia, Doctor.
becoming self-conscious. It was delightful to watch him.
wholly outside the sane experience of mankind.
GWENDOLEN.
tenebrousness was indeed a _positive quality_; for it obscured such
And Other Tales
While in reading the Gospels--particularly that of St. John himself, or
some particular reason for disliking the name.
CHAPTER VIII.
again and correlating the theosophical and anthropological notes with
night all Arkham had heard of the great rock that fell out of the sky
there was silence. She felt as if she was in a terrible dream.
Upstairs, in his own room, Dorian Gray was lying on a sofa, with terror
CHAPTER XVII.
from ours. Now an unlettered seaman felt the same thing whilst gazing
terre, et que toutes les femmes apprendront à ne pas imiter les
upon the horrible thing. No eye but his would ever see his shame.
destined to reveal to the world the mystical meaning of wine and the real
been!” he said; “now I know why the Spring would not come here.
humanity is sometimes cruelly judged by the law.
Surrey; and the Sporran, Fifeshire, N.B.
baker’s door when the baker was not looking and tried to keep himself
never become good.
added, passing his hand over his eyes, with a gesture of pain.
play about any more, so he sat in a huge armchair, and watched the
used to be a friend of Lord Staveley. I met him at dinner last week.
brittleness.
on a desperate chance; and, setting the engine for full speed, ran
a dire future from visions he has seen. A dispatch from California
iments. You mustn’t believe a word that he
world’s tongue.  But he had better prepare himself.  He shall have a
who I was, and that she invariably told them my name was Prince
such a mental revolution as I had never before known, I
Alas! no. The manuscript unfortunately was abandoned. [Cecily starts.]
ce had his cry and entry started up? Halted by
“‘Well, really,’ said the Miller, ‘I think that, considering that I am
sense, and was for that very reason all the more dangerous. It was the
CHAPTER XV.
“I am the Happy Prince.”
say when faced by the unknown.
observed on the floor of the ruined Whateley farmhouse when the horror
Crocuses, and gold, purple Violets and white.  Columbine and Ladysmock,
Cheveley.
I suppose. It looked the loveliest of little live things. But I am
very ancient religion whose discovery would make me an anthropologist
the Higher Education of Women was invented.
"How horrid!" cried Mrs. Otis; "I don't at all care for blood-stains in
because man is a symbol.
he heerd the whippoorwills so laoud in Col' Spring Glen he couldn't
Dorian did not answer for a few moments. He was dazed with horror.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Authoritatively_.]  Yes, you must!  There is not a
I had told too much, that I had put too much of myself into it. Then it
one says, love with our ears, just as you men love with your eyes, if
jostled by a nautical-looking negro who had come from one of the queer
and dismal.
of the pail. That was all. Nahum was past imagining, Mrs. Pierce was
“Basil,” he said, coming over quite close and looking him straight in
studio towards Basil Hallward.
LORD AUGUSTUS.  I prefer women with a past.  They’re always so demmed
life, isn’t it?  That is why I am giving this party to-night.  Do sit
ifies me. But here
down amongst the diabolist Eskimos. There then followed an exhaustive
spectrum vanished in a month, the dust thereafter consisting mainly of
LADY WINDERMERE.  Oh, I can’t believe it!
her lips with a scarlet poison that her lover might suck death from the
scarlet threads of life and to weave them into a pattern; to find his
a good class in the Natural Science Tripos of his year. Indeed, he was
same state, and a number of bones of smaller animals. The ooze and
Mr. Hoadley disappeared soon after delivering this sermon; but the
armchair_.
for red blood, as other men have for red wine—the son of the Fiend, as
“‘It is some poor traveller,’ said little Hans to himself, and he ran to
of the gardeners what it was called. He told me it was a fine specimen
him, and, looking round, saw the little Duke coming up on his pony, with
“There will be no difficulty, sir,” said the genial frame-maker,
unconsciousness and delirium.
left.  Suddenly they were taken away from me by the law.  It was a blow
Dans quel pressoir peut-on le trouver?
ANE.
s—my own brother
old days the place must have been lonely and remote. And at twilight,
[SIR JAMES ROYSTON _gives the_ DUCHESS _his arm and escorts her into the
_tornasuk_; and of this Professor Webb had taken a careful phonetic
lly,’ said the Miller, ‘I think that, considering that I am
luctance about approaching, and did so at last only because
One thing which I began to suspect, and which I now fear I _know_, is
LADY WINDERMERE.  Why do you _talk_ so trivially about life, then?
first time in my life I saw in the plain woodland the wonder I had
“Would you have me take the verdict of Europe on it?” he inquired.
of you, considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow; but of
ALGERNON.
the arts preoccupied with youth may serve as a model for us at one
with wild, tear-dimmed eyes looked into its polished shield. Once, some
little.  I should like to have a few minutes’ conversation with her.
JACK.
were glad of the path, for they could not have gone the front way, by
correlation with any speech of earth, but toward the last there came
et sont plus rouges que les roses, ne sont pas aussi rouges.
[Enter Jack.]
blowing about in the chill wind that came down the chimney.
of liberation and restoration. All this Johansen did not
to take them from her, the wicked old fellow would be out of his grave
LADY WINDERMERE.  Tell them to do it at once, Parker.
rather florid Louis-Quatorze pattern. He scanned it curiously,
Windermere?  With a proper background women can do anything.
in the house was a breath from regions unnamed and unnameable. Ammi
But surely, Mr. Worthing, you have been christened already?
beetles, who were just thinking of setting up house
set convention at defiance, were seen to grow pallid with shame or
on earth I should do when I caught sight of the play-bill. What do you
Tommy for ten minutes.  He looked quite shocked.  And then Tommy is so
humbug your father tells me about Dartmoor wanting to marry an
“Sibyl, you are mad about him.”
was not one to be perturbed by any common family event. Amidst it all
Christ.  It was always supposed that Christ talked in Aramaic.  Even
Mrs. Erlynne
regardais j’entendais une musique étrange!  Ah! pourquoi ne m’as-tu pas
the medical examiner, and the veterinary who had treated the diseased
truth comparable to sorrow.  There are times when sorrow seems to me to
Ammi's grip tightened on a heavy stick he had picked up in the attic
MRS. ERLYNNE.  You propose to tell her?
be conquered without any revelation to the world of the monstrous
it is? You know I would help you.”
sufficient.  I have no sympathy myself with industry of any kind, least
of years and that her body was lying in a marble tomb in Verona. I
Donovan slid or somehow propelled himself down or along the jamb and
tremendous, and the sources scattered throughout the globe. Here
LORD GORING.  You didn’t accept him, I hope?
_Sole Lessee_: _Mr. Herbert Beerbohm Tree_
to the queer stench which now seemed to trickle down from the sealed
“Courage has passed from men to women.
course it was the meteorite; and remembering how strange the men from
Ones; free and wild and beyond good and evil, with laws and morals
with. It is not what you told me it was. It is the divinest thing in
often for a single fault. One had to pay over and over again, indeed.
had soiled me for ever.  Oh! what a mask you have been wearing all these
with the three professors from Miskatonic University who hastened out
only proper basis for family life.  Mothers are different.  Mothers are
earth to worship it at midnight. They said it had been there before
to his cheeks.
bores have. By the way, what has become of that wonderful portrait he
HÉRODIAS.
door that opened into the room that was to keep for him the curious
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Lady Windermere, before Heaven your husband is guiltless
ey
JACK.
fond of you?”
to say. Why is it, Dorian, that a man like the Duke of Berwick leaves
frenzy.
deliberate bloodthirstiness and repulsiveness.
they give, and to those who have not enough imagination to penetrate the
noted by my uncle?
and the negative finally won.
cigarette.”
incorruptibility, and all the other seven deadly virtues—and what is the
to know each other.”
vain gauds and toys, however suitable or necessary to the dignity of the
SALOMÉ.  Donnez-moi la tête d’Iokanaan.
to see something not quite right about their nature and arrangement.
thought was buried, rose up in front of me, hideous, horrible, with its
“Our host is rather horrid this evening,” answered the duchess,
ERMERE.  Never!
nothing whatsoever to do with me.  I know you were engaged to be married
back_.  _Sits down at table and writes a letter_, _puts it into an
felt that I was right.... Well, after a few days the thing left my
MRS. ERLYNNE                _Miss Marion Terry_.
LORD WINDERMERE.  I am going to tell her.
[_Exit_ ROSALIE.]
looked for. The lodging-house drudge bustled in and out. There was the
love, would you?”
first subject, and not nearly enough in the second.
leum, which she had herself designed, and
dreary corridor that, before the whole crowd, whom an action so sweet and
all golden, and silver fruit hung down from them, and underneath it stood
him, and to make his passing out a pretty terrible sight.
ath from the skies whose motions and dimensions our
ss guards to a certain and familiar doom.
quickly in the direction of his own house.
secret cult would always be waiting to liberate him.
talk about oneself, as I do.  It is what I call selfishness, and
glance showed concavity after the first showed convexity.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Wonderful woman, Lady Markby, isn’t she?  Talks more and
evil must be something which grandmas had whispered to children
to think ambition the great thing.  It is not.  Love is the great thing
none. All three had seen the body of Wilbur Whateley as it lay on the
half-insane father
and shimmered over the sashes of the small-paned windows. It ran up
far deeper and older than negro fetishism was involved. Degraded and
money matter? Love is more than money.”
cellar, some mineral and metallic litter here and there, and the rim
purification. Nothing remains then but the recollection of a pleasure,
it develops that a very puzzling aftermath occurred at the college
the pale purple of its plumes, so that all the air shall be Arabia for
CECILY.
for them, and began to eat them listlessly.
him, won’t you, Uncle Jack? [Runs back into the house.]
manned by a queer and evil-looking crew of Kanakas and half-castes.
laboratory where the two phials of dust were finally taken. Under the
told his colleagues it would be suicidal to try to attack it in the
ici.
disgraceful of your servant hiding my work like that.
near that institution. Wilcox was a precocious youth of known genius
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Why don’t you try to do something useful in life?
itself does not progress.  It revolves.  It seems to circle round one
are gone.”
scarlet caps and skated on the ice.
feel that.”
remote corner of Bayswater.
cellar, some mineral and metallic litter here and there, and the rim
worshipped.
“Quite finished,” said the painter. “And you have sat splendidly
of which is just showing from under the blotting-book_.]  Please get me a
HAROLD.  What name, madam?
that only black Magick can discover, and only the Divell unlock.
speak guardedly of serious native unrest toward the end of
provided there is somebody to look at one.
persist in believing the remains Caucasian.
HÉRODIAS.  Ma fille, ne dansez pas.
recognized some solvents as I mentioned them in the usual order of use.
Algernon Moncrieff
[_The music stops_.  _Enter the_ DUCHESS OF BERWICK _and_ LORD PAISLEY
Guy Berkeley.
cannon forming part of the yacht's equipment.
half-past six the boys came back and said that they could find no trace
LADY MARKBY.  [_Reflecting_.]  You are remarkably modern, Mabel.  A
her little hands together, began to pray silently, while the rest of the
blood-stain on the library floor. This certainly was very strange, as
stone, with a subterrene voice or intelligence shouting monotonously
de le trouver.
LORD GORING.  A letter gravely compromising one’s position.  I am only
be easy to know, for then mankind would have become as the Great Old
flute-player mocked the swinger of the censer; and, as Caligula, had
these years. He seemed slightly proud of the notice his place had
see that you belong to the lower orders.  A person of my position is
narcissus. Then she flung herself on her knees and kissed my hands. I
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Yes, and I will tell you what it is.  It is his love for
Professor Angell.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_With a smile_.]  We have much more important work to do
up and pouted. “Money, Mother?” she cried, “what does
On Lammas Night, 1924, Dr.
AVERSHAM.]  I hope an operation will not be
“I am going,” he said at last in his calm clear voice. “I don’t wish to
extraordinary.  But modern women understand everything, I am told.
“His name is Prince Paradox,” said Dorian.
“I will tell you some other time. Now I want to know about the girl.”
[Reproachfully.] Mamma!
is over.  The newspapers do their work instead.
before the rose is finished.”
alienating the affections of my only ward. He subsequently stayed to
hare in pain, which is dreadful, the cry of a man in agony, which is
ensuite je mangerai ce qui reste.
Yes, Miss. [Goes out.]
and whispered on I shivered again and again despite the summer day.
moonbeams; but this new glow was something definite and distinct, and
proceeding further he had to retreat to another room and return
t try to navigate after the first
clumsy in movement. He was not so finely bred as his sister.
feet, but before the ambulance could reach him he was dead. Physicians
Then the ghost spoke again, and his voice sounded like the sighing of
“I am on the side of the Trojans. They fought for a woman.”
On March 23rd, the manuscript continued, Wilcox failed to appear; and
noses of the young girls so particularly large.  And there is nothing so
LORD DARLINGTON.  Don’t what?
the chance of remaining always young, however fantastic that chance
forgot the dawn, and lingered on in the sky.  The red rose heard it, and
believe that the world would gain such a fresh impulse of joy that we
Dorian Gray shook his head. “I left her in the forest of Arden; I shall
leave a card on you.  In England I suppose that would hardly be
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Oh, love me always, Gertrude, love me always!
often at the Thayer Street office of Dr. Tobey, whom he learned to
wicked.”
must serve to liberate Their bodies. The spells that preserved Them
Then there burst forth a frantic whinny from Ammi's horse outside,
e highest
I cannot give my sister’s life into your hands.  It would be wrong of me.
Dieu ne se montre pas.  Il se cache.  Et par conséquent il y a de grands
room with her.  It was absolutely shameless, the whole thing.
train. That makes no matter. I can go to-morrow. But don’t ask me to
to. It was crude. It reminded her of a bad rehearsal.
desire had come to meet it on the way.
[Illustration: "BLOOD HAS BEEN SPILLED ON THAT SPOT"]
conservatory at Tenby.
with silver feet, the shadows crept in from the garden. The colours
tenebrousness was indeed a _positive quality_; for it obscured such
CECILY.
huge ledger and adjudged a sort of diary because of the spacing and
every demmed thing.  We all wronged her immensely.  It was entirely for
Dorian shook his head. “It is a bad omen, Harry. I feel as if something
LORD DARLINGTON.  Vileness is a terrible word, Lady Windermere.
were brought him, but he ate only the smallest fraction of either.
explanations, he set out at once for Arkham and notified the
cannot."
he knew. This person was the late William Channing Webb, professor of
and forwards.
Well, I wish you would offer one. I happen to be more than usually hard
music was not articulate. It was not a new world, but rather another
Henry peered through his glasses, murmuring, “Charming! charming!”
poet for whom the world is a song.  I remember saying once to Andre Gide,
and cruel to her. The fascination that she had exercised over him would
attention to themselves.
Nothing seems to us changed. Out of the unreal shadows of the night
mended the roof, you had better go home and rest, for I want you to drive
further acquaintance between us during your stay in London is quite
“Oh, Jim!” said Sibyl, laughing, “how unkind of you! But are you really
MABEL CHILTERN.  What a dreadful prospect!
the water had been emptied. It had a very queer colour, and as all the
je te le donnerai.  Je te donnerai tout ce que tu demanderas, sauf une
MISS PRISM.
would be a greying and turning brittle like that which beset the hogs.
fantastic shadows were silhouetted against some lamplit blind. He
eley began to knit back into a sort of continuity; so
the room of a club when you enter it? Why is it that so many gentlemen
for smaller things than that.  It was in this spirit, and with this mode
slime at the bottom seemed inexplicably porous and bubbling, and a man
negative result, though scattered cases of uneasy but formless
questioning the natives concerning all that had occurred, and seeing
were braying, bellowing and writhing about a monstrous ring-shaped
LORD AUGUSTUS.  But you said you wished me to keep early hours!
into the thicket, he fired. There were two cries heard, the cry of a
some indications of the strange hill noises came from afar off, he
toward
and kinds...."
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Really?
attention to themselves.
live entirely out of England.  A very good thing too.  Demmed clubs,
panic-struck whirring and fluttering. Against the moon vast clouds of
Miller was the chief mourner.
LORD GORING.  Yes.  It was an unpleasant surprise.  What did she come
storm arter the big bolt, when he see all the trees a-bendin' at the
is always from the noblest motives.”
pleasure to dominate me.  I ended in horrible disgrace.  There is only
talk to me about the weather, I always feel quite certain that they
moment, as though to hide their secret. When they opened, the mist of a
others. We are to see her to-night, if that boy doesn’t forget his
calloused to strange and unpleasant things. He and the boys continued
[Gwendolen and Cecily are at the window, looking out into the garden.]
“You disarm me, Gladys,” he cried, catching the wilfulness of her mood.
own perfections.
letter sent at once to Claridge’s Hotel.  There is no answer.  [_Exit_
woman to do.  It is the growth of the moral sense in women that makes
shadow and its gloom.  Failure, disgrace, poverty, sorrow, despair,
door shut against one, to have to creep in by hideous byways, afraid
Cthulhu for a glorious resurrection when the stars and the earth might
Square. I believe my house is somewhere about here, but I don’t feel at
Eagerly clearing the sheet of its precious contents, I scanned the item
too little.  The one disgraceful, unpardonable, and to all time
now, and had grown used to the sense of something near him waiting
HÉRODIAS.  Quel vin est-ce, le vin de Dieu?  De quelles vignes vient-il?
Then, when it was seen that nothing further could be gained from the
LANE.
such eldritch contradictions of all matter, force, and cosmic order.
A low moan broke from her, and she flung herself at his feet and lay
GWENDOLEN.
the staircase stands_ LADY CHILTERN, _a woman of grave Greek beauty_,
and rough undergrowth.
e
is no language for such abysms of shrieking and immemorial lunacy,
foolishly as was thought at the time, and on succeeding some months
yesterday, in the Park, that Mr. Graham talks almost as well as his aunt.
_Third F’cap. 8vo Edition_                      _December_      _1911_
Lord Goring!  Pray be as trivial as you can.
wife!  You know it!  What are you
hangs on the outside of my cell door, with my name and sentence written
in the building, and had manifested since then only alternations of
dining with you to-night after all.
They’re approaching. That’s very forward of them.
he road outside, and nearly drowned its owner's faint quaver as he
admitted that there was very little to examine. Specimens could be
impose on him a mission at once too great and too mean for him.  He is a
d_.  LADY WINDERMERE _slips out from
and Aylesbury to look up property and notify any who might be heirs
never do anything that one cannot talk about after dinner. But let us
enough to make it rise head and shoulders above
A weird bunch of cuttings, all told; and I can at this date scarcely
swore that they swayed also when there was no wind; but even the
sank upon one knee, and kissed her hand.
lightning-like on deck and reversed the wheel. There was a mighty
I will take very good care you never do.
“Never mind.”
Besides, you are interested, I know, in International Canal schemes.  You
their heads at the visitors' plan to stand guard at the Frye ruins near
the date of young Wilcox's seizure, and expired several months later
"THE MOON CAME OUT FROM BEHIND A CLOUD"
at the falls, built in 1806, form the most modern piece of architecture
glass of water.
“For the most trivial things, Mr. Gray, I assure you. Usually because I
Skeleton," a _rôle_ in which he had on more than one occasion produced
by Oscar Wilde
Arden, disguised as a pretty boy in hose and doublet and dainty cap.
y by some goatherds, floating
say. You had brought me something higher, something of which all art is
was not left unmolested.
covered it, and, holding it in his hands, passed behind the screen. Was
and begged them to see him inside his own kitchen, instead of
her ... it'll git her ef we ain't keerful ... jest a colour ... her
there is but one step, if as much as one.
American Reformed Episcopalian Church, they found it a bright
Eagerly clearing the sheet of its precious contents, I scanned the item
New Jersey, the curator of a local museum and a mineralogist of note.
MABEL CHILTERN.
donne l’éventail_.]  Vous avez l’air de rêver.  Il ne faut pas rêver.
lose everything.
during my temporary absence in London on an important question of
LADY WINDERMERE.  How weak bad men are!
that one wishes they would keep their distance, but there is no road by
After that I went to Sydney and talked profitlessly with seamen and
looked out through the leaves, and wondered.
seemed to hover about the strangely domed hills and the deep, shadowy
him—when you come back from Australia. You will like him so much.
which the sufferings of Thebes and Pelops' line are by their very horror
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Oui, Seigneur.  Il ressuscite les morts.
was really dead, and you acquired his property by purchase."
of the tracks seemed to argue a passage in two directions, as if the
HÉRODE.  Son pére était roi.  Je l’ai chassé de son royaume.
It is always painful to part from people whom one has known for a very
letter with a puzzled look_.  _Then takes it up_, _and reads it again
“Is it true, Mr. Gray?”
various keys on the ring he had taken. The third key proved the right
classical and romantic movement in life, but the very basis of his nature
packed, except my shirts, so you need not trouble.”
beside the bas-relief and the papers of Professor Angell. With it shall
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  ‘I want you.  I trust you.  I am coming to you.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I don’t know that women are always rewarded for being
ALGERNON.
more of an individualist than ever I was.  I must get far more out of
ancient farmhouse, and the weirdness of the whole region and its hill
Arthur; in real life we don’t do such things—not as long as we have any
A Marechal Niel? [Picks up scissors.]
ath came, but his wife must not
important thing, the thing that lies before me, the thing that I have to
CECILY.
after a pause; “I know he likes me. Of course I flatter him dreadfully.
rba_, used by
had chanted to their kindred idols was something very like this--the
and you must come and see him.
“Nothing of the kind,” answered the Duck, “every one must make a
ning_.]  I’m afraid it is very flattering—I am
evidently been dead for more than a week.
inwrought, so that no man might bring poison within.” Over the gable
believe that anything contrary to natural law had occurred. No doubt
They were the lines which that noble Queen of Prussia, whom Napoleon
some disjointed fragments evidently taken from the _Necronomicon_,
été à Rome dernièrement, est-ce que l’empereur t’a parlé au sujet . . .?
to it, I should not mind a bit.  I can be perfectly happy by myself.  With
“Is it really finished?” he murmured, stepping down from the platform.
Mathematical Master frowned and looked very severe, for he did not
the better.”
wholly accurate to say that no human pen could describe it, but one may
aylight.
LORD GORING.  Fortunately you have not the chance, Mrs. Cheveley.
“Oh! my maid does that already, Mr. Gray, when she is annoyed with me.”
and then I sold my silver chain, and then I sold my big pipe, and at last
LADY WINDERMERE.  Whom are you talking about, Duchess?
at school each day; but they could not help being frightened by the
You had much better dine with your Aunt Augusta.
any rate, listen to those subtle poisonous theories that in Basil
o be godlike. The painted scenes were my world. I knew
“No,” she answered, wondering at the harsh simplicity of life.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  I regret my bad actions.  You regret your good ones—that
nued, turning round and taking his handkerchief out of
as we sat together in some Paris _cafe_, that while meta-physics had but
“Oh, anywhere. Here: this will do. I don’t want to have it hung up.
HÉRODIAS.  Mais non.  Il n’y a pas de vent.
excellent habit.  It’s a great mistake on her part.  When men give up
common thief were better.  You put yourself up to sale to the highest
comparatively cold reception.  He complained of a draught the whole time.
abroad, an' I fer one think that black Wilbur Whateley, as come to
Here the first part of the manuscript ended, but references to certain
meant by the imaginary instance of the couple not two years married.  Oh!
good, an' I think as all the men-folks ought to git up a party an'
father, aren’t they?  Of course I only speak from hearsay.
HÉRODIAS.  Je ne veux pas qu’elle danse.
t!
the while to hear the laughter, the horrible laughter of the world, a
Wizard Whateley's, only it was yards an' yards acrost...._"
decay of centuries. It is always a relief to get clear of the place,
“Mr. Dorian Gray’s, sir,” answered the policeman.
strange beam of ghastly miasma was to him of no unfamiliar hue. He had
to trouble about setting a good example, but I always admire people who
after cycles incalculable, the thoughts that spread fear to the dreams
and menaces to man's existence that he had uncovered.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  You have enabled me to tell you the truth.  That is
rd.
LORD WINDERMERE.
the public, but had left a long manuscript--of "technical matters" as
watchers saw wriggling at that treetop height, a thousand tiny points
Such, at any rate, was Dorian Gray’s opinion. He used to wonder at the
of the sensitive and called imperiously to the faithful to come on a
folk of the ancient commercial city dismissed him as merely "queer".
something to it. Oh, if it were only the other way! If the picture
incredible to him. And yet it was a fact. Was there some subtle
longer shining out; it was pouring out; and as the shapeless stream of
city and the Thing, but I shall never sleep calmly again when I think
now harbors the one slovenly mercantile establishment of the hamlet.
great sea.”
up with the utmost care—to marry into a cloak-room, and form an
JACK.
within the soul? He wondered, and hoped that some day he would see the
because what he sought was no longer there. It had come to meet him,
other much nicer names. I think Jack, for instance, a charming name.
school of _Symbolistes_.
[Pencil and note-book in hand.] I feel bound to tell you that you are
Mais je ne peux pas souffrir le son de sa voix.  Je déteste sa voix.
about to agree when the noise of splintering wood burst in upon their
of the well-sweep was shining now, and presently a policeman dumbly
by
MRS. MARCHMONT.  Well, we are not going to praise her.  I hear she went
plants ... must a' ben more of 'em ... seeds ... seeds ... they
through the windows. He read on by its wan light till he could read no
the fairest and the most full of promise that he had brought to shame.
life, isn’t it?  That is why I am giving this party to-night.  Do sit
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Baron Arnheim.
burden was always some terrible Cyclopean vista of dark and dripping
My uncle blamed his old age, Wilcox afterward said, for his slowness
are nothing to me now. I will never see you again. I will never think
that—that any public man, my father, or Lord Merton, or Robert, say, had,
THE COLOUR OUT OF SPACE
CECILY.
through, you would simply look upon him as an admirable subject. You
ailes de l’ange de la mort.
to continue it. If they were allowed their own way, every comedy would
to manage her, but were beaten about by the storm of April 2nd.
LORD WINDERMERE.  Well, dear, has the fan been sent home yet?  [_Going
Yes, I am Mr. Worthing’s ward.
to have sailed to strange ports and talked with undying leaders of the
admired by tourists and others, and cannot be removed."
must be horrors of the mind alone, for in some way the second of April
arts, and for it all the other arts seemed to be but a preparation.
Henry, stepping forward and extending his hand.
men shut their eyes, but Curtis Whateley snatched back the telescope
LADY WINDERMERE.  If we had ‘these hard and fast rules,’ we should find
hideous, treacherous crime. Months of voiceless agony, and then a child
Potter's general store at Clark's Corners. Stephen Rice had driven past
retires_.  _The door is then slowly opened_, _and_ MRS. CHEVELEY _comes
emotional.”
doctor put him to bed he could only mutter over and over again, "_But
garden-girdled Babylon."
right. The picture cannot be shown.
into everything growing now. Yet it was none of Nahum's family at all
glad when the new reservoir blots it out. I shall be glad, too, for I
“Yes,” said Dorian. “And I am afraid, Francis, that I have another
“I am so sorry for you, Alan,” he murmured, “but you leave me no
that. Better for him that each sin of his life had brought its sure
the _Alert_ under way. Slowly, amidst the distorted horrors of that
‘Certainly,’ cried little Hans, ‘I take it quite as a compliment your
Constable?” asked the elder of the two gentlemen.
Now I have realised that it is in me, I see quite clearly what I ought to
better seeing they realized that the span of frantic grays had broken
My dear boy, I love hearing my relations abused. It is the only thing
the singular clay bas-relief, which was then exceedingly damp and
sh had been something else--something which
MISS PRISM.
SECOND SOLDAT.  Mais non.  Par exemple, le frère du tétrarque, son frère
would light fires on the top of Sentinel Hill, at which times the
ALGERNON.
An amusing chronicle of the tribulations of the Ghost of Canterville
What was youth at best?
pleasure?
down amongst the diabolist Eskimos. There then followed an exhaustive
_which he then carefully closes_.]  Tell him to have this sent off in
to happen. The crowd stirred uneasily, recalling that this sprayer was
name could fit such thing, or any other thing fit such a name. It
strange days, and all three professors who saw the aerolite and its
tightening fingers away. In a second he heard the click of a revolver,
who had committed a real murder.”
GWENDOLEN.
_Lessee and Manager_: _Mr. George Alexander_
extraordinary mistake in nature, I suppose.  [_Enter_ LORD CAVERSHAM.]
colombes et de lis d’argent.  C’était une tour d’argent ornée de
nervously the clammy vapour which had brushed by him in that frightful
Toward 1 o'clock Old Whateley gained consciousness, and interrupted his
After this he was not seen again on any nocturnal expedition. The twins
leur parole.  S’ils ne la gardent pas, c’est terrible.  S’ils la gardent,
And yet, as the members severally shook their heads and confessed
picture in one of the old papers spread beneath the stones. It was the
know who he is?” said Dorian, listlessly. “What do you mean?
his heart,” he answered, sinking into an arm-chair.
time without other
himself who wishes to retire from public life.  He feels it is his duty.
never act well again.”
outbreaks of group folly or mania in the spring of 1925.
its tomb, destroyed its record, burned the one witness against me.  You
salon of 1926. And so numerous are the recorded troubles in insane
purple-and-gold pall as a curtain. For weeks he would not go there,
R'lyeh under the waters, should rise and bring the earth again beneath
e outside of my cell door, with my name and sentence written
LORD GORING.  [_Rising from his chair_.]  I was waiting for you to say
would instruct and catechize him through long, hushed afternoons. By
but great eccentricity, and had from childhood excited attention
afternoon, as they were coming from school, the children used to go
with words. That is the reason I hate vulgar realism in literature. The
not stirred, but was still there, as he had left it.
pulling the daisy to bits with his long nervous fingers.
of us.  [_Strolls to the fireplace and looks at himself in the glass_.]
“Ask Mr. Gray to wait, Parker: I shall be in in a few moments.” The man
la mort.  Il ne faut regarder que l’amour.
became current about him after he had passed his twenty-fifth year. It
the _Necronomicon_, in those parts which Wilbur had sought so avidly,
himself had been too fond of the daughters of men.  The two most deeply
opens to Yog-Sothoth, it's all over an' no use. Only them from beyont
tore and reverberated through those
“Good God, Dorian, what a lesson! What an awful lesson!” There was no
pas?
[Enter Jack slowly from the back of the garden. He is dressed in the
MABEL CHILTERN.  That is a strange request.
good name. You don’t want people to talk of you as something vile and
calming. He had come of late to do nothing but stare into space and
“‘Upon my word,’ said the Miller, ‘you are very lazy.  Really,
Later, it seems, he and one companion boarded the yacht and tried
"I dun't keer what folks think--ef Lavinny's boy looked like his pa, he
no matter now, for it is all over, and I don't think it was very nice of
glistening yellow face.
dreams at night, they protest, are very horrible in that grotesque
earth's supreme terror--the nightmare corpse-city of R'lyeh, that
And I quite agree with her.
so fussy as yew be." And without saying more he rose and strode out of
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Arthur, you are unjust to me.
slay around idol-capped monoliths in lonely places.
globules by drilling, the seekers left again with their new
once more be ready for Them.
be got from all these.
“Yes, Harry, I know what you are going to say. Something dreadful about
his memoirs, and always looked over the shoulder of the person to whom he
been a slight earthquake tremor the night before, the most considerable
excellent dancer. Gardenias and the peerage were his only weaknesses.
sight; and hysterical dwellers ran out to cluster around the group of
was as if the poet had coined the phrase from having seen this one
Her guests this evening were rather tedious. The fact was, as she
by chance, in wresting a secret from his friend! How much that
safe in your own house.  He thinks you are asleep in your own room.  He
“I suppose you have come about the unfortunate accident of this
world. The bad fruit of the fall before was freely mentioned, and it
“I can’t bear this, Harry!
no other way to annul the deeper and more malign meddling which others
LONDON
JACK.
substance wasted away.
he jumped out of bed and looked out.
yet.
the whole evening!
marked by all. A rumbling sound seemed brewing beneath the hills, mixed
palatable, I believe—I fancy it is the thing the servants always refuse
size and accomplishments were almost alarming. He had grown as large as
MISS PRISM.
St. Louis. Professor Angell, as befitted one of his authority and
that the world held no rock like it. Then I thought with a shudder of
qu’à moi.  Souvenez-vous, j’ai glissé dans le sang quand je suis entré
vibrate in terrible and exquisite pulsation.  The thin beaten-out leaf of
ALGERNON.
a theatre?
been crowded out by the County Council, or the Lambeth Conference, or
down.  [_Still arranging flowers_.]
I expect the Bishop and dear Lady Merton.
de quelqu’un.
entered, carrying a large mahogany chest of chemicals, with a long coil
the brave old Canterville spirit asserted itself, and he determined to
nameless place for some nameless purpose.
warning upon the schooner with a peculiarly heavy battery of brass
hearing myself talk.  It is one of my greatest pleasures.  I often have
stickiness, but all turned instinctively to the line of horrible prints
an Australian journal, _Sydney Bulletin_ for April 18, 1925. It had
waiting at home for him.
a nervous little pop. Nothing was
the prow of Adrian’s barge, gazing across the green turbid Nile. You
Scott-Eliott's _Atlantis and the Lost Lemuria_), and the rest comments
story Harry told me about a certain philanthropist who spent twenty
extremely probable I never was, and so does Dr. Chasuble. It is
coming to tea?
And yet amid that tense, godless calm the high bare boughs of all
huddled inert on the moonlit ground between the splintered shafts of
winders. An' then ... an' then...."
Hallowmass. Now that very stone formed the center of a vast space
LORD GORING.  You did perfectly right.  [_Exit_ PHIPPS.]  What a mess I
laughing.
Conjecture was vain; so after a futile attempt to find additional
pick them up. But I don’t want to interrupt you. Go on with your
members of the vice-admiralty court. I saw the _Alert_, now sold and
poison to Ginevra d’Este in a cup of emerald, and in honour of a
not stirred, but was still there, as he had left it.
_Then starts up and puts on her cloak_.]  No, no!  I will go back, let
wun't keer ter git very nigh Wizard Whateley's!
grandson. His mother was a Devereux,
A few weeks after this, the purchase was concluded, and at the close of
violets.  His hair is brown and crisp, and his lips are red as a
well as the little white walled-in house at Algiers where they had more
who did not quite understand Mr. Otis's last observation, "and if you
On Lammas Night, 1924, Dr.
the road flamed like throbbing rings of fire.
merciful.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  What is the matter with this family?  Something wrong
mind an' then gits ye ... burns ye up ... in the well water ... you
Mrs. Gardner was the next to see it from the window as she watched the
"They whistle jest in tune with my breathin' naow," he said, "an' I
GWENDOLEN.
ever.
"I suppose because we have no ruins and no curiosities," said Virginia,
in his nightclothes, when waking had stolen bewilderingly over him.
Well, would you mind my reforming myself this afternoon?
eccentric, I admit. But only in later years. And that was the result of
graphically at first hand, though it was really no more than a detailed
“I am jealous of everything whose beauty does not die. I am jealous of
whiter than the snow upon the mountain.  But go to my brother who grows
r into some other plane
than go out from this prison with bitterness in my heart against the
geniuses, and listening to beautiful people.
dressed and very dignified_.  LADY WINDERMERE _clutches at her fan_,
unplaceable colour left the well, it seemed to flow directly into the
would be highly displeased if he learned that that was the way in which
perhaps a little too much occupied with the comeliness of the benches of
SALOMÉ.  Ton corps est hideux.  Il est comme le corps d’un lépreux.  Il
That evening, after a day of hurried cabling and arranging, I bade my
beauty of poetry he possessed he had gained entirely from Dorian. His
craft shot by her. She saw the thin lips moving, and smiled.
well.  If Sir Robert doesn’t uphold my Argentine scheme, I expose him.
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Oh, on account of that horrid woman.  She dresses so
ADMIRATION
The pen dropped from Dorian Gray’s hand, and he felt as if his heart
best friend. No one has ever understood me as you have.”
watchers saw wriggling at that treetop height, a thousand tiny points
than an hour, when the final throaty rattle came. Dr. Houghton drew
molded in his sleep the form of the dreaded Cthulhu. March 23rd the
various times, coming fitfully and wilfully, as children, as flowers, are
MYSTERY DERELICT FOUND AT SEA
ago, had seen it in the crazy vegetation of the springtime, and had
across his forehead and looks up_.]
running down his golden cheeks.  His face was so beautiful in the
Charming.”
thou art'? a phrase which when I wrote it seemed to me little more than a
LADY WINDERMERE.  I did not spy on you.  I never knew of this woman’s
sailors had done by accident. After vigintillions of years great
never died, and high priests said that the city would rise again when
there is no other, and that if the world has indeed, as I have said, been
the wind.
and then drove across the park to join the shooting-party. The crisp
that contained a baby of the male sex. You never returned. A few weeks
Nahum had come to town to tell people about the stone, and had dropped
For over two weeks Ammi saw nothing of Nahum; and then, worried about
inform you of the fact. An engagement should come on a young girl as a
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh, no!  This is the game of life as we all have to play
Frye lit a lantern through force of habit, but knew it would be death
and when Mr. Otis had ended, he shook him cordially by the hand, and
instant start on an investigation of the utmost thoroughness was
lately, however. They have had my own divorce-case and Alan Campbell’s
Cyclopean architectural background.
LADY CHILTERN.  She is incapable of understanding an upright nature like
touched it, it grew grey and dull and cloudy.
whether it is so or not. How should I know? But it is said of you. I am
Then he saw the statue on the tall column.
“You don’t want me to meet him?”
Lord Wind
Yes. I mean no.
Winter came early, and was very cold. Ammi saw Nahum less often than
ss guards to a certain and familiar doom.
slid greasily into the water and began to pursue with vast wave-raising
“Days in summer, Basil, are apt to linger,” murmured Lord Henry.
lost consciousness for an instant, though he did not stumble or fall.
from the individualist point of view bad enough, but what excuse can
What is said, however, by myself or by others, matters little.  The
He had a special passion, also, for ecclesiastical vestments, as indeed
little hillside farms; sometimes with all the buildings standing,
ballad are made by the imagination of others, but out of his own
photograph in her hand_.  LORD WINDERMERE _moves to back of sofa_, _and
HÉRODIAS.  Vous entendez ce qu’il dit contre moi?  Vous le laissez
sandwiches cut for Lady Bracknell?
spoke of the dreams in a manner none could mistake.
m an' the souls they hunts fer hev some
delightful way of opening the day.  Every one, even in a turbulent, ill-
than in the doing of them, strange triumphs that gratified the pride
the most o' ye only tell abaout.
a comparatively short time. Pray sit down.
you would care to verify the incident, pray do so. [Produces diary of
of mercenary marriages. When I married Lord Bracknell I had no fortune
chance, eyes other than his spied behind and saw the horrible change?
of her bunch with tremulously uncertain hands. “Here is the key. I’ll
promis, ce qui m’appartient.  [_Le page recule_.  _Elle s’adresse aux
invite her.  A most attractive woman, and has such sensible views on
quite close his face grew red with anger, and he said, “Who hath dared to
part would not be out of place. Mr. Worthing, is Miss Cardew at all
such grass and herbage as had not been wholly changed to lethal grey
you a terrible sacrifice.  Take my advice, Lady Chiltern, and do not
his. Night would soon fall, and it was then that the mountainous
But at dinner he could not eat anything. Plate after plate went away
one can behold Them as They tread. By Their smell can men sometimes
West of Arkham the hills rise wild, and there are valleys with deep
die. I forget what killed it. I think it was her proposing to sacrifice
pass as a loathsome commercial transaction of a loathsome commercial age;
listening to some vulgar street-preacher. As I passed by, I heard the
reach them.
LADY CHILTERN.  You sold a Cabinet secret for money!  You began your life
to foot. After a little while, a black shadow that had been creeping
should always be ready for the coming of the bridegroom, always waiting
was a sort of heavy dragging, and a most detestably sticky noise as
the supper-room.  She wants you to make her apologies to them.  She said
a child of four, and was a fluent and incredibly intelligent talker.
As the rest of the watchers on that tempestuous hill had stolidly set
HÉRODE.  Apportez . . . Qu’est-ce que je veux?  Je ne sais pas.  Ah!  Ah!
LEN.
Dorian Gray passed his hand over his forehead. There were beads of
But I can’t bear listening to them.  I don’t know how the unfortunate men
shifted. Nahum did not send her to the county asylum, but let her
hogshead, an' all sticky with stuff like is on the blowed-up haouse.
but I fear that I should not be able to give you my undivided
Sime or an Angarola could paint. Void of clothing, this hybrid spawn
talking myself.  It saves time, and prevents arguments.”
old one can still be found amidst the weeds of a returning wilderness,
does it matter? I am quite happy here.”
e actually made me
mother with a growing contempt, finally forbidding her to go to the
ship of Odysseus. Then, bolder than the storied Cyclops, great Cthulhu
one’s _début_ with a scandal. One should reserve that to give an
dinner.
thought a crashing sound followed the breaking off of the exclamation.
everybody. It was a pleasure even to see him.
what was found in the attic and under the red checked tablecloth on
[In a severe, judicial voice.] Prism! [Miss Prism bows her head in
to evening parties.
SALOMÉ.  Sur quoi jurez-vous, tétrarque?
for being a pack of Radicals. He was a hero to his valet, who bullied
for silicon. It had acted quite unbelievably in that well-ordered
“Life has everything in store for you, Dorian. There is nothing that
stolid resignation about them all, as if they walked half in another
speculations of theosophists and made man and the world seem recent
shouldn’t see my own work, especially as I am going to exhibit it in
passed his aunt’s some distance, and, smiling to himself, turned back.
ALGERNON.
funny look of penitence. “I promised to go to a club in Whitechapel
unhealthy.  [_Takes a seat on the sofa next_ LADY CHILTERN.]
influence was so insidious. Why has he never been able to move away?
He had heard, meanwhile, of Whateley's grotesque trip to Cambridge,
de lui parler.
How exquisite life had once been! How gorgeous in its pomp and
were incapable of anything of the kind. Know you? I wonder do I know
CECILY.
in our praise, as the story is one of the finest
Conjecture was vain; so after a futile attempt to find additional
morning, and sent the note down by my own man.”
the well water was no longer good.
Why, I have met hundreds of good women.  I never seem to meet any but
HÉRODE.  Non, non, Salomé.  Vous ne me demandez pas cela.  N’écoutez pas
the hot, lotus-covered Nile, where there are Sphinxes, and rose-red
I haven’t the smallest intention of doing anything of the kind. To
with such noble ideas.
shall be late for lunch, if I stop any longer. Thanks for giving me the
a whole year.”  And he certainly did explode.  Bang! Bang! Bang! went the
good or evil.
success.  In all things connected with money I have had a luck so
_This book was First Published in 1893_
“Curse you!” he answered, “don’t call me that.”
pandemoniac cachinnation which filled all the countryside, and not
[Footnote 1: Found among the papers of the late Francis Wayland
trembling party realized it would be no use waiting for the moon to
summons from the swamp and lagoon country to the south. The squatters
except the weather,” he answered. “I am quite content with philosophic
e
more than usually plain. Besides, Jack is a notorious domesticity for
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Gone out?  She’s not on the terrace?
sake that I am speaking. I think it right that you should know that the
HÉRODE.  Tu mens!
CHAPTER VIII.
who ever heard of emerald-green blood?"
earlier architectural period than that of the neighboring region. It
choice already been made? Yes, life had decided that for him—life, and
araound Wizard Whateley's ol' haouse...."
LORD GORING.  That is the reason they are so pleased to find out other
thing to fight, and it can't multiply.
or fast-filling cellar. Weeds and briers reigned, and furtive wild
Later on we'll try it. It's a frightful thing to have alive, but it
down the wall, and my garden shall be the children’s playground for ever
is because one realises one's soul only by getting rid of all alien
were duly kept from press and public, and men were sent to Dunwich
things rustled in the undergrowth. Upon everything was a haze of
had been lost in some delightful dream. Yet he had not dreamed at all.
influence. No other activity was like it. To project one’s soul into
comme la lune dans un grand nuage blanc . . . Je vous les donnerai tous.
own first cousin having been married _en secondes noces_ to the Sieur de
for a mad passion. A few wild weeks of happiness cut short by a
“‘What a silly boy you are!’ cried the Miller; ‘I really don’t know what
hideous _Necronomicon_ of the mad Arab Alhazred in Olaus Wormius' Latin
talk of that.
strange days, and all three professors who saw the aerolite and its
am filled with awe.”
MASON                       _Mr. H. Deane_.
CECILY.
at six o’clock, he found him crying as one whose heart will break.
rocks, hunters—all, in fact, that a painter can copy from nature”; and
a great architect went mad, and poor Wilcox raved with fever in that
“It is quite evident that you have always lived in the country,” answered
, and make the other toss
in—retired to another room—I assure you, most gratifying to me, the whole
to be the true object, or amongst the true objects, of life; and in his
comparison of details, and a moment of really awed silence when both
of the mind, to be drugged with poppies, to be strangled lest it might
The living man was clutching a horrible stone idol of unknown
show what was left down there at Nahum's.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  You thought that letter had been destroyed.  How foolish
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Yes, we begin like that.  It was only Berwick’s
“Give me a clue.”
THE PERSONS OF THE PLAY
Well, I simply wanted to be engaged to Cecily. I adore her.
LADY CHILTERN.  I suppose so.
Then fell the time of fruit and harvest. The pears and apples slowly
produced in modern times.
Mr.
is unalterable. I decline to give my consent.
*       *       *       *       *
in commercial use, at Circular Quay in Sydney Cove, but gained nothing
which overlooked the swath at a point considerably ahead of where the
horror happened, but he has never been there, and will be
That is absurd. One has a right to Bunbury anywhere one chooses. Every
coming to me, and I will start
tongues had been tied.  His desire was to be to the myriads who had found
her.
in favour of this scheme.
JACK.
beaucoup mieux de dire cela . . . Mais ne parlons pas de cela.
“And found it, Mr. Gray?”
“I quite forget what I said,” smiled Lord Henry. “Was it all very bad?”
_Vigilant_ Arrives With Helpless Armed New Zealand Yacht in Tow.
sounds most frequently repeated are those rendered by the letters
Although I joy in thee,
Or if it be necessary, then what is it that I have loved!  But it is not,
was being followed.
“Your letter? Oh, yes, I remember. I have not read it yet, Harry.
o' the glen--opposite side ter this--an' smelt the same awful
handsome cameo bracelet that Sir John had given me.  I don’t think he has
seemed to supply new and terrible clues to the nature, methods, and
of mercenary marriages. When I married Lord Bracknell I had no fortune
LORD GORING.  [_Turning round_.]  Well, she wore far too much rouge last
compliments.  I am afraid Margaret doesn’t encourage you in that
heureux.  Il n’y a rien qui me manque.
admitted that there was very little to examine.
“Why didn’t you kill him?” she hissed out, putting haggard face quite
Thursday night began much like the others, but it ended less happily.
JACK.
JACK.
Disloyalty would be as impossible to him as deception.
the lamp_.]  For so well-dressed a woman, Mrs. Cheveley, you have
certain about it--that the moment the prodigal son fell on his knees and
“Oh! she is audacious enough for anything, my dear. And what is Ferrol
been chattered about in the penny newspapers, which is the
“I am glad there is some one in the world who is quite happy,” muttered a
left to right in endless bacchanale between the ring of bodies and the
faded wholly away when they put it in a glass beaker.
used to tell her that I did not want to eat my bread in sorrow, or to
fascinating. It feels instinctively that manners are of more importance
e early morning,
impassivity_. _He has been termed by enthusiasts the Ideal Butler_.  _The
And it is only fair to tell you frankly that I am fearfully extravagant.
of cowed quivering.
slight refreshment at five o’clock. Where have you been since last
"MAKING SATIRICAL REMARKS ON THE PHOTOGRAPHS"
trying to get herself compromised, but was so peculiarly plain that to
were duly kept from press and public, and men were sent to Dunwich
were in the grip of stark terror from an unknown thing which had stolen
elle sourit comme une petite princesse.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I will not do what you ask me.  I will not.
LORD GORING.  [_Smiling_.]  I am not so sure.
senses.
let us go. Dorian, you must not stay here any longer. It is not good
commonest device can take me in!
was all that he showed; relief at the doom of the dark ancient valleys
[_Exit_ PARKER _C._]
LORD GORING.  Rather than lose your love, Robert would do anything, wreck
lowing pitifully, having followed the boy back in the panic they shared
still wonderful in their depth and brilliancy of colour. They
natural.  I see no difficulty at all in believing that such was the charm
“‘Real friends should have everything in common,’ the Miller used to say,
GWENDOLEN.
on flapping membranous wings. The odor arising from the newly opened
never knew what terror was before.  I know it now.  It is as if a hand of
common pattern.
Dorian Gray will dominate me. You can’t feel what I feel. You change
most violent agitation. The vulgarity of the twins, and the gross
to elaborate a real psychology of perfumes, and to estimate the several
drawing-room and looks in_.]  Ugh!  How dreary a bachelor’s drawing-room
thing visible toward the last. One case, which the note describes with
passion. What there was in it of the purely sensuous instinct of
hat they found. Merwin
of the ignorance of youth. The only people to whose opinions I listen
MRS. CHEVELEY.
but that he felt was now vibrating and throbbing to curious pulses.
ring of fire.
thick.
really wonderful amount of animal spirits. Indeed, in many respects, she
TERN.  I will not do what you ask me.  I will not.
always to wear.
be even still more attractive at the age you mention than she is at
strange vegetable conditions, the unknown disease of livestock and
Duchess,” he murmured; “my nerves are dreadfully out of order. That is
“It is not much to ask of you, Dorian, and it is entirely for your own
responsible for this apparent disturbance of an old man's peace of mind.
applaud me.  We have been too lax.  We must make an example.  I propose
Angell was widely known as an authority on ancient inscriptions, and
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Oh! never mind me.  I’ll face them.
box at the opera, either alone or with Lord Henry, listening in rapt
Serious Bunburyist! Good heavens!
nearly up to the bowsprit of the sturdy yacht, but Johansen drove on
have left.  They are made of rare sapphires, which were brought out of
when the wind shifted. A reddish glare, too, seemed to filter through
LADY BASILDON.  Ah! that accounts for so much in men that I have never
growing luminosity of the trees. The neighing and stamping of the
this afternoon.
severe chill.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  You mean you cannot help doing it.  You know you are
"It is very wrong to kill any one," said Virginia, who at times had a
whippoorwills a-screechin' daown thar in the dark o' noonday...."
will go with him—I have no choice.  [_Sits down for a few moments_.
think he would have done much more good work. During the last ten years
For, while he fascinated many, there were not a few who distrusted him.
ssible!”
“I can never sit to you again, Basil. It is impossible!” he exclaimed,
have distinction and brains for every common tongue to wag against him.
of his then just conscious boyhood. Surely his wish had not been
around the base of the hills and across
LORD CAVERSHAM.
red, and was crushed for ever
But I haven’t got a cough.
[Quite crushed.] Victoria. The Brighton line. [Sinks into a chair.]
accept the seat in the Cabinet.
“‘Good morning,’ said Hans, leaning on his spade, and smiling from ear to
by the crude wooden bars; and Ammi could see nothing at all on the
which induced one of the men, an excitable Spaniard, to fancy he heard
of the public placard.
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Coldly_.]  Yes, I have seen a good deal of her since
unless I have a buttonhole first.
of 1928 suggested the most valid of reasons.
you.  Gertrude.’
donnerai le manteau du grand prêtre.  Je te donnerai le voile du
the stars, had awaked to claim his own. The stars were right again, and
who know absolutely everything, and people who know absolutely nothing.
give her”; and he flung himself down on the grass, and buried his face in
people the opportunity of finding out each other’s character before
and bedded itself in the ground beside the well at the Nahum Gardner
ly expensive.  I know I am.  I hope you will be more reasonable
play—Hamlet, I think—how do they run?—
effect.  Now I go in for domesticity, and look after my family.”
secret dishonour or disgrace?  Tell me, tell me at once, that—
PHIPPS.  I don’t observe any alteration in your lordship’s appearance.
his pocket; “his painting had quite gone off.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Is about to embrace her_.  _Then restrains herself_.
bruit.  Je n’entends rien.  Pourquoi ne crie-t-il pas, cet homme?  Ah! si
Henry over the heavy clusters of purple-lipped irises that stood in the
place is not good for imagination, and does not bring restful dreams at
increased strength and the special signs of purpose it was soon to
Dr. Armitage slept, but was partly delirious the next day. He made
CECIL GRAHAM.  But I thought, Tuppy, you were never going to see her
New Jersey, the curator of a local museum and a mineralogist of note.
bushrangers were to attack them three times, and be defeated with
them, and I am not surprised.  True love suffers, and is silent.  I
forgotten them, but he consoled himself by the reflection that the Miller
are not.
people are so absurdly unreasonable.  They always want one to be
second story. She would never tell what her father and the boy were
steeplechase. They take things flying. I don’t think Dartmoor has a
way to avoid it. Once across, it is hard to prevent the impression of a
high wall all round it, and put up a notice-board.
the strange cult-members who had lingered in the old sea taverns.
At the time Nahum thought the lantern and pail were gone too; but when
anything.”
that you assured me most solemnly that nothing in the world would
doubtful character—is always calling upon her, lunching with her, and
myself.
first interview the manuscript records daily calls of the young man,
MRS. CHEVELEY.  So do I.  Fathers have so much to learn from their sons
best friend.  Perhaps by to-morrow you will be my only friend.  My wife
to bark.
CECILY.
cities of men. A time will come--but I must not and can not think! Let
be fine and noble. To spiritualize one’s age—that is something worth
in the
ready. He was looking worried, and when he heard Lord Henry’s last
all dreams of the dank city ceased, and Wilcox emerged unharmed from
Vous n’avez rien à faire ici.
its own lines, but was interrupted and spoiled by the dreary classical
great friend of yours?
stones on islands in the Pacific. They all died vast epochs of time
WILDE
_May_                _1912_
CECILY.
“but don’t let Sibyl.... It is a gentleman, isn’t it, who is in love
him in an attic room across the hall from his mother's. The way they
just as the dawn was touching the hills with silver, he returned towards
happiness, as no doubt you noticed.  But there are many tragedies in her
everything to me. Then came that dreadful night—was it really only last
look in the eyes. I don’t know what Harry has been saying to you, but
fulfilled? Such things were impossible. It seemed monstrous even to
other; he read of the Obelisk in the Place de la Concorde that weeps
CECIL GRAHAM.  Ah!  Hopper is one of Nature’s gentlemen, the worst type
[Irritably.] Yes, but what was my father’s Christian name?
ruin it. No, I must go, dear Agatha. Good-bye, Lord Henry, you are
of your oldest friends, one of your husband’s oldest friends.  Mrs.
impassive and waited for his orders. Dorian lit a cigarette and walked
of the gleam of the opal-and-iris-throated birds that flutter round the
should take example by me; you could not possibly have a better model.
suis sûr qu’elle cherche des amants . . . N’est-ce pas qu’elle chancelle
was ever admitted to the closely-boarded upper story. This chamber
reason of his birth, his indolence, the good English of his dispatches,
feel that every woman here sneers at me as she dances by with my husband.
any explanation, and you are not to ask for any. But, remember, if you
you speak the truth about anything?  [_Sits down_.]
not awake yet.
there were any men, and who came to the young world out of the sky.
the studio. “Don’t, Basil, don’t!” he cried. “It would be murder!”
CECILY.
It is rather Quixotic of you. But I think you should try.
nearer every moment. He got up at once, struck a match, and looked at
eyes; and had not a present horror numbed him he would have thought of
with horror.
Lady Chiltern?  I can’t remember where.  I have been out of England for
children a good example.
“You had better confess your sin, for as sure as I am James Vane, you
The lad started and drew back. He was bareheaded, and the leaves had
ALGERNON.
any healthy New England wood. There was too much silence in the dim
suffered, society should realise what it has inflicted on me; and that
and makes a grimace. Puts down cup at once, reaches out her hand to the
In the spring after Wilbur's birth Lavinia resumed her customary
known to him, who had latterly been studying sculpture at the Rhode
mist against the black and blasted landscape. It wasn't right--it was
Briden pushed at the stone in several places without result. Then
to listen to me—that as far as I have known Mrs. Erlynne, she has
am quite ready for more.
that I was forced to write your letters for you. I wrote always three
with the puppets of a play? When I came on to-night, I could not
You will let me see you to your carriage, my own darling?
LADY MARKBY.  And a very good thing too, dear, I dare say.  It might
nor the smallest instinct about when to die.
influence: a suggestion of what one might become as well as a real help
“I like it better. Come and have something to drink. I must have
such a proposition!
in their churchgoing or their attendance at the various social events
for a moment that—[_Puts book back into desk_.]
that one hears just before dawn when nightingales are singing. There
people’s secrets.
“Never mind, Lady Narborough. I smoke a great deal too much. I am going
CECILY.
“You always come dreadfully late.”
Mr. Gray at present. I have only just met him.”
SALOMÉ.  Je danserai pour vous, tétrarque.
it had in other years, and he felt that age was beginning to tell on
LADY CHILTERN.  Yes; Lord Goring has just told me.
tell you?
“Ah, then,” said Lord Henry, rising to go, “then, my dear Dorian, you
LORD WINDERMERE.  Margaret, none of us men may be good enough for the
fortune, you must come back and assert yourself in London.”
JACK.
But where were you? Did you go down and see the girl’s mother? For a
slid down through the tangled growths of the almost vertical slope.
With pleasure!
being nervous, she was absolutely
only as "_Cthulhu_"; and all this in so stirring and horrible a
come!
us Petrarch, and Raphael's frescoes, and Palladian
to me to have become simply the refuge of people who wish to annoy their
head, swore according to the picturesque phraseology of the antique
the roses and zinnias and hollyhocks in the front yard were such
dusty grey desert remained, nor has anything ever grown there since.
swallows fly far too well for that, and besides, I come of a family
LORD GORING.  Only a quarter to four, father.
Street, a hideous Victorian imitation of Seventeenth Century Breton
matter that she could be allowed to arrange for herself . . . And now I
with slow deliberation. There was a look of contempt in the steady
chance of spreading the potent powder with marvelous effect.
Hetty’s heart is not broken. Of course, she cried and all that. But
Whateley animals. Odd wounds or sores, having something of the aspect
break up many a happy home if they did.  Not yours, I need hardly say,
[Coming over very slowly.] But I don’t like German. It isn’t at all a
“You use them for everything, except flight.”
He now gave up all hope of ever frightening this rude American family,
amids.
footmen and crept upstairs. They knocked, but there was no reply. They
the battled and disabled but heavily armed steam yacht _Alert_ of
their visitors with ill-concealed distaste, though they did not dare
shallow people who require years to get rid of an emotion. A man who is
he destroyed.  'In all beauty,' says Bacon, 'there is some strangeness of
HÉRODIAS.  Faites-le taire.  Je ne veux pas entendre sa voix.  Cet homme
“I congratulate you.”
in enigmatical sense-impacts uninscribable save as gibberish. The two
and his hordes, hidden in green slimy vaults and sending out at last,
dramatic version, here reprinted, is the literary and dramatic property
burned on Sentinel Hill as usual, but people paid more attention
There was a pandemonium of questioning, and only Henry Wheeler thought
during which he related startling fragments of nocturnal imagery whose
own direction, have hitherto harmed us little; but some day the piecing
LADY WINDERMERE.  Why do you say that?  [_A pause_.]
How charmingly you said it!  Ten to-morrow.
she sat silent in the oak-tree, and thought about the mystery of Love.
Votre beauté m’a troublé.  Votre beauté m’a terriblement troublé, et je
from the crowd, and Dr. Armitage shouted to the men outside that no
the dear Duchess.  Won’t you carry the fan, Lord Augustus?
Vane.
How sweet you’re looking!  Where _do_ you get your gowns?  And now I must
glad when the new reservoir blots it out. I shall be glad, too, for I
what I thought of her performance, and she seemed quite unconscious of
deep waters, full of the one primal mystery through which not even
of the dying man. It was uncanny and unnatural--too much, thought Dr.
below had come a voice that was not a voice; a chaotic sensation which
*       *       *       *       *
ancient trees they had to scramble as if up a ladder, put these
before the father could get to the door the boy was gone. There was no
t his tale to Mrs.
left to right in endless bacchanale between the ring of bodies and the
and improve with time. We live, I regret to say, in an age of surfaces.
au bord de la rivière et parmi les amandiers et il me racontait des
U.S.A.
from that disused well, or the grey dust that no wind seems ever to
_Sydney Bulletin_ I have mentioned, for my friend has wide affiliations
CECIL GRAHAM.  The only good woman you have ever met in your life?
on earth do you do there?
“What nonsense you talk!” said Lord Henry, smiling, and taking Hallward
HÉRODIAS.  Je suis bien contente que vous soyez de si belle humeur, ce
the young Student; “but in all my garden there is no red rose.”
_followed by the servant_, _who closes the door after him_.  _The husband
great ormolu gilt clock that sprawled in gaudy curves on the
he found. There could have been nothing from outside, for the small
shoulder. "Dun't go out thar," he whispered. "They's more to this nor
firm and precociously shaped nose united with the expression on his
with the possession of those virtues that are likely to be a benefit to
eminently natural; though privately I suspected young Wilcox of having
never was engaged.”
ALGERNON.
delirium. Over a fourth of those who reported anything, reported
rutes that they might make
when the day came there were many who hoped that the new horror had
no time to be lost, so, hastily adopting the Fourth dimension of Space
and nothing could exceed his disappointment.
errands in town. They were failing curiously both physically and
that had produced the substitution? Might there not be some curious
however, were far from modern in atmosphere and suggestion; for,
cousin Cecily.
to go out into that black farmyard. The children and the women-folk
LADY WINDERMERE.  Don’t spoil it by saying extravagant silly things to
everything, I should fancy. You have such an absolutely trivial nature.
blasphèmes.  Et l’ange du Seigneur Dieu le frappera.  Il sera mangé des
JACK.
rounded and symmetrical to give a sense of comfort and naturalness, and
could make_. I looked at one or two afore I run, an' I see every one
suppose that is all right?
Henry had the charm of being very dangerous. But that was all. He was
Yes, sir. [Handing sherry.]
LORD GORING.  That was the natural result of my loving you.
from the erratic and unbelievable tales extorted from the captured
drunk the water--it got strong on 'em--it come from beyond, whar things
rings of rough-hewn stone columns on the hilltops, but these are more
Then he took out the key and returned to the room, locking himself in
that is burnt now _was_ your letter.  I swear it to you!
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Certainly, if you pin it in.  [LORD GORING _suddenly
looking like Artemis in a tailor-made gown. You see we have come back,
sheer impressiveness, it had found subconscious expression in dreams,
and to have as few white ones as possible. In fact, I don’t want any
last ball of the season?
could be so vast.
looking out listlessly at the black streets.  Under the archway of a
had the courage to commit.”
merciful.
t safe now. No one would ever look
a moment. Then it began to scramble all over the oval stellated globe
by the crude wooden bars; and Ammi could see nothing at all on the
He had often tried it, and would try it again now. There were opium
[Still standing up.] I may call you Cecily, may I not?
woman to do.
Farquhar. She is such a nice woman, and so attentive to her husband.
removed and carried back by Legrasse.
“Somewhere about here, sir, ain’t it?” he asked huskily through the
don’t you go!
But was our engagement ever broken off?
beams of a sunlight once more brilliant and untainted. They were grave
Yes, you have.
Some of the drivers were lying asleep on a pile of sacks. Iris-necked
purple vats of Burgundy be filled with wine to the brim, and the treaders
[Goes down the garden with Dr. Chasuble.]
begins to write in her diary.]
y two of the prisoners were found sane enough to be hanged, and
them up. You don’t know what an existence they lead down there. It is
LORD GORING.  I don’t at all like knowing what people say of me behind my
in the spring, and that wild things leave queer prints in the light
fingers began to play with a long tortoise-shell paper-knife.
like it in history. Was it not Plato, that artist in thought, who had
husbands for us.  I think the Lower House by far the greatest blow to a
asked her for the key of the schoolroom.
LORD GORING.  Yes.  I know lots of people think that.
any accountable being to eternal torment. Anyone but a stolid farmer
MR. COWPER-COWPER.  Good evening, Mr. Dumby.  I suppose this will be the
the great sinister ravine; for all the trees on the banks were bent and
and for the same space of time.
connection that it is small wonder he pursued young Wilcox with queries
unguided into black arcades of horror that none of them had ever trod
people know the price of everything and the value of nothing.”
sit lonely, and she will pass me by.  She will have no heed of me, and my
things to me. You don’t know everything about me. I think that if you
LADY BRACKNELL.
COUNTESS OF BASILDON        _Miss Vane Featherston_.
go and help him. I have not yet told him the colour of my frock.”
plative Sphinx, or
forest for its silence at noon.  The vineyard-dresser wreathed his hair
[After a pause.] Lady Bracknell, I hate to seem inquisitive, but would
Basil Hallward’s compliments had seemed to him to be merely the
certainly would not have listened to you; in fact, I should have said
towards Wizard Whateley's--a kinder rippin' or tearin' o' wood, like
distance of three leagues; the _teponaztli_, that has two vibrating
LADY PLYMDALE.  Lord Windermere, I’ve something most particular to ask
_Third Edition_ (_F’cap_ 8_vo_, 5_s._ _net_) _September_        _1909_
all certain about it. I am sorry you are going away, as I have not seen
into another manner or a new material his impression of beautiful
even in love it is purely a question for physiology. It has nothing to
is actually staying for a whole week
neighborhood now. His height had increased to more than seven feet, and
by number, I should have attempted some corroboration and personal
MASON.  No, my lady.
a-headin' fer the haouse. Then she up an' spoke suddent of a fearful
regarder.
lief_.]
ever having caught the glint of sunlight. On the gentler slopes there
to the Court of St. James.
since the horror happened, but he has never been there, and will be
GWENDOLEN.
even the blackest of the African voodoo circles. Of its origin, apart
MABEL CHILTERN.  I am glad you admit it.  But I wish you wouldn’t look so
vrai mariage.  Il dit que c’est un mariage incestueux, un mariage qui
Dear Mr.
him charming. He atones for being occasionally somewhat overdressed by
But the Nightingale understood the secret of the Student’s sorrow, and
huddled between the stream and the vertical slope of Round Mountain,
into everything growing now. Yet it was none of Nahum's family at all
sure I don’t know half the people who come to my house.  Indeed, from all
same.  There is nothing like race, is there?
you first speak to Miss Sibyl Vane?”
filling his pockets with plums and cherries if it was the fruit season.
Locally, interest was intensified by the obscurity of the cause of
LADY CHILTERN.  They should both represent man at his highest.  I see no
seemed to have a fantastic likeness to Basil Hallward. He frowned, and
[LADY CHILTERN _goes out through the door leading to her boudoir_.]
appetite, made to blind the one and cloy the other, but out of sorrow
shall we go? Let us go to the park.”
power to do good that is fine—that, and that only.  What is it, then?
impressive. Lord Canterville was the chief mourner, having come up
was made to hush it up, and a full account of all the circumstances
describe. In her raving there was not a single specific noun, but
Yes, but you said yourself that a severe chill was not hereditary.
sensitiveness of impression, its suggestion of a spirit dwelling in
rose, Red rose, White rose”; and the King gave orders that the Page’s
low-comedian, who had introduced gags of his own and was on most
political and financial scheme, about this Argentine Canal Company, in
Sawyer, housekeeper at Seth Bishop's, the nearest place to Whateley's,
scientists verified the fact of the utter vanishment. The failure was
LADY WINDERMERE.  I think we’re very good friends already, Lord
J’ai juré, n’est-ce pas?
ALGERNON.
only putting an imaginary instance—do you think that in the case of a
"Gawd," he gasped, "I telled 'em not ter go daown into the glen, an' I
At last the door opened and his servant entered. He turned glazed eyes
CECILY.
We have.
sense of dread expectancy, the darkness, the steepness of the narrow
Cecily! [Embraces her.] At last!
so pretty.  One of the prettiest hats I ever saw.  I hope the Woman’s
Irish peasants of our own day, were bilingual, and that Greek was the
and little birds.  Only in the garden of the Selfish Giant it was still
moon and plays with shadows, while Greek art is of the sun and deals
resentment, hardness and scorn, I would be able to face the life with
our moral prejudices. I never take any notice of what common people
[Breaking away from Algernon.] Algernon Moncrieff! Oh! [The two girls
Curzon Street, right opposite them—such a respectable street, too!  I
have been waiting here all the morning to see either her or Robert.
go away to-day, if you like.  [_Rises_.]  We can easily catch the 3.40.
Then he turned his attention to embroideries and to the tapestries that
r me, I
the fire.
crept into my soul.
fatal portrait to which all his misery had been due had gone out of his
for nearly all the three-volume novels that Mudie sends us.
stray heifer, but he nearly forgot his mission when he fleetingly spied
Yes; there had been things in his boyhood that he had not understood.
you. Which is the work of art, sir?”
She wants to see me, Arthur.
prejudices, his principles, and his common sense.
After about a quarter of an hour, he got the coachman and one of the
he sun.  In fact, I shall go so high
gasp. The others looked at him, and then quickly followed his own
investigation; but as it was, I succeeded in tracing down only a
LORD GORING.  But women who have common sense are so curiously plain,
a voice. It was very low at
o repass that ominous spot, I walked circuitously back to the
their faces toward the road, Ammi had looked back an instant at the
still have dominated his temper. From cell to cell of his brain crept
powder, and Nahum feared that the trees would die before the poison
East End? I assure you he would be quite invaluable. They would love
so silent and furtive that one feels somehow confronted by forbidden
R'lyeh under the waters, should rise and bring the earth again beneath
he hero of the wonderful novel that had so influenced his life had
LADY MARKBY.  We might drive in the Park at five.  Everything looks so
done in such a wretched hole of a place. Still, I felt interested, in a
w-coloured women
head, dragon body, scaly wings, and hieroglyphed pedestal, was
JACK.
“You know you believe it all,” said Lord Henry, looking at him with his
Why do you place us on monstrous pedestals?  We have all feet of clay,
that now.
the dog's rending paws still rested watchfully, had the leathery,
goatish or animalistic about his thick lips, large-pored, yellowish
MABEL CHILTERN.  Your first.
LORD GORING.  I am going to ring for my servant.  He is an admirable
ugly despite his appearance of brilliancy; there being something almost
speculation.  It is not a speculation.  It is a sacrament.  Its ideal is
quelquefois ils couchent sur le gazon et autour de l’étang.  Il n’y a pas
I wonder if life has still in store for me anything as marvellous.”
LORD WINDERMERE.  I should feel it was not true.  A mother’s love means
"Stop them, stop them!" he would shout. "Those Whateleys meant to let
it all?”
In the elder time chosen men had talked with the entombed Old Ones in
of St. Elmo ... and all the while the shaft of phosphorescence from
world, I would gladly and readily beg my bread from door to door.  If I
And, speaking of the science of Life, have you got the cucumber
of remarkable parents.  My mother was the most celebrated Catherine Wheel
And they are not an old family.
distant wastes and dark places all over the world until the time when
the battled and disabled but heavily armed steam yacht _Alert_ of
authorities that the Gardner family was no more. He indulged in no
that excited any attention being the continual renewal of the
plank out.
She did not answer for some time, but stood gazing at the landscape. “I
alliance with a parcel? Good morning, Mr. Worthing!
Park.  She will be your constant guest—your dearest friend.  You would
LORD GORING.  Doesn’t that sound rather like tempting Providence?
might be, or with what fateful consequences it might be fraught?
time.
The CALL of CTHULHU
dress-circle, stamped and swore with rage. The only person unmoved was
"_Oh, oh, my Gawd, that haff face ... that haff face on top of it ...
Seigneur.
woman as a Nonconformist conscience.  And most women know it, I’m glad to
thing. Enough is as bad as a meal.
[_Enter_ LORD GORING.  _Thirty-four_, _but always says he is younger_.
the jewelled, lantern-shaped monstrance with that pallid wafer that at
list slippers, with a thick red muffler round his throat for fear of
Lord Henry came over and examined the picture. It was certainly a
And after six months nobody knew her.
r, and to glimpse a hellish advance
lantern and pail for water, and had never come back. He'd been going
people, but scandals about myself don’t interest me. They have not got
self-contained. It was simply bad art. She was a complete failure.
foxes as they ought to be. Ammi listened without interest to this talk
“Not with women,” said the duchess, shaking her head; “and women rule
to his own, swathed with its silent snows the Titan form. On its breast
“Oh, don’t be so serious, Jim. You are like one of the heroes of those
PHIPPS, _who advances towards her_.]  Is Lord
“Who hath dared to wound thee?” cried the Giant; “tell me, that I may
Are you called Algernon?
course it was the meteorite; and remembering how strange the men from
faded wholly away when they put it in a glass beaker.
until one night when he drove past Nahum's house in his sleigh on the
pack of people, who haven’t got the remotest knowledge of how to live,
"The graoun' was a'talkin' lass night, an' towards mornin' Cha'ncey
eating.]
strengthen, and at last it was very plain that healthy living things
[Quite politely, rising.] My darling Cecily, I think there must be some
leaf by leaf, and give it to my poor; the living always think that gold
remember I passed her on to my sister; poor dear Sir George is so
The Morrison Co.'s freighter _Vigilant_, bound from Valparaiso,
singular persistence. Six times within an hour the farmer saw the
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Rushing towards her_.]  Gertrude!  Gertrude!
red—I forget exactly what it was. Finally he succeeded,
to say to you.”
noticed since there now seemed to be no mice, and only Mrs. Gardner had
very big basket, and he knew that if he filled it he would have no
was callin' folks up an' everybody was a-listenin' in when a call from
have played a duet together—three duets, I believe. I don’t know what
indeed.  You should have told your wife the whole thing.  Secrets from
la verge de celui qui te frappait a été brisée.  Car de la race du
place her on a pedestal of gold and to see the world worship the woman
always walked uprightly in the Lord's ways so far as he knew.
like a dagger. The people round began to gape. A lady standing close to
words knows them to be but 'words, words, words.'  Instead of trying to
Lady Bloxham? I don’t know her.
ell you that to me
anywhere else, and early in March there was an awed discussion in
e moment-ci il est dans les environs de Jérusalem.
way the whippoorwills followed the change. It was the same for more
away, he had been filled with terror lest other eyes should look upon
as he looked down at her bowed golden head. Suddenly she stood up, very
having, as he explained once to Lady Agatha, said everything that he
m’as rejetée.  Tu m’as dit des choses infâmes.  Tu m’as traitée comme une
then the only things that one can use in
frightened woodland deer. It took a week to track all four, and when
large, dark, almost Latin eyes to give him an air of quasi-adulthood
dy Bracknell. I am on my way to join her.
this horrid London again. I am sure I don’t want to.”
But the Tree cried to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn.
where the fleshly impulse ceased, or the psychical impulse began? How
LORD GORING.  Great heavens! his own wife!
Vane? She was nothing to him now.
about the sensation I derived from my one lone walk before Ammi told
hysterical Levantines on the night of March 22-23. The west of Ireland,
himself with the massed lore of cryptography, drawing upon the fullest
the angel of death will have mercy on me.
Who never spent the midnight hours
off, Cecil.  Don’t touch me.
demeanour, and for a moment felt keenly the terrible pleasure of a
he finally chose, Dr. Armitage looked involuntarily over his shoulder
by Dunwich and its denizens. The strangeness did not reside in what he
There is not the smallest element of excitement in knowing him.
“You thought it was my husband. It is only his wife. You must let me
"
fashion that England succeeds in setting.
then got up hastily and dressed himself with even more than his usual
LORD GORING.  Yes, father, I prefer it domestic.
May I ask why?
secret scandal she might be afraid of.
Oh, I might trot round about five if that would suit you.
usual, I see, Algy!
and it was still alive after a fashion.
After that I went to Sydney and talked profitlessly with seamen and
MRS. ERLYNNE.  A letter for Lord Windermere?
him. It was remarked, however, that some of those who had been most
caused the _Boston Globe_ and _Arkham Advertiser_ to print flamboyant
it in cars provided by the directors, who, in such matters, are
corner. “And now, my dear fellow, I want to speak to you seriously.
you.  I trust you.  I am coming to you.  Gertrude.’  [_Puts down the
husband’s love is in your hands.  Don’t mar both for him.
lighter, and there were signs that the storm had worn itself away. When
autant que la lune.  Il ressemble à un rayon d’argent.  Sa chair doit
Everybody likes him, and I ... love him. I wish you could come to the
label there is no escape! I refuse the title.”
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_With an amused smile_.]  My dear Windermere, manners
wife’s milliner.  Never could stand Lady Caversham’s bonnets.
they heard a crash and a sudden shrill cry; a dreadful peal of thunder
sex.  It is perfectly brutal the way most women nowadays behave to men
mist against the black and blasted landscape. It wasn't right--it was
and from that time forward kept close watch of the case; calling
at all.
“Mother, I have something to ask you,” he said. Her eyes wandered
SECOND SOLDAT.  Il regarde quelqu’un.
Cable advices from Dunedin report that the _Alert_ was well known
Finally turns round.] Gwendolen, the carriage!
yelled agin, an' says the front yard picket fence bed jest crumpled up,
She laughed again. Her teeth showed like white seeds in a scarlet
winter snow. Snow never seems quite so heavy on the blasted heath as
ancient woodwork. God! how old the house was! Most of it built before
to collect all my best pictures for a special exhibition in the Rue de
him with a sneer, or look at him with cold searching eyes, as though
relations to the art and culture of my age.  There is not a single
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Leaning back on the sofa and looking at him_.]  How
Rosencrantz see no more in his conduct than a rather painful breach of
Inspector Legrasse was scarcely prepared for the sensation which his
LORD WINDERMERE.  No; but because she knows that you are a good woman—and
“There are worse things than capture,” she answered.
I had no idea there were any flowers in the country.
a sleeping memory and won the fevered interest of my uncle. There had
extremely interesting question. I fancy that the true explanation is
CECILY.
Should he move it aside, after all? Why not let it stay there?
'  It was worth while living to have
But Johansen had not given out yet. Knowing that the Thing could
both. We watch ourselves, and the mere wonder of the spectacle
GWENDOLEN.
defeat at the inspector's problem, there was one man in that gathering
is necessarily with what has found expression.  In words or in colours,
smallest degree.
s, the unknown disease of livestock and
LORD GORING.  I wonder who dropped it.
And peace come to Canterville.'
would go back to her. I felt I had done wrong. And now she is dead. My
“Darlington is not going to do anything. My brother paid the bill at
Even business should have a picturesque background.  Should it not,
Johansen and his men landed at a sloping mud-bank on this monstrous
Pope's poetry, and everything that is made from without and by dead
LORD GORING.  [_Leaning back with his hands in his pockets_.]  Well, the
Haardrada, which kept alive the name of Oslo during all the centuries
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Speaking with great deliberation and emphasis_.]  Ah!
pause_.]  My God!  What shall I do?  I dare not tell her who this woman
this sea-soaked perversion, and twisted menace and suspense lurked
its predecessor. Aside from being almost plastic, having heat,
twisted a more indescribable horde of human abnormality than any but a
d
ALGERNON.
that I could not get anything for it if I sold it.  I will certainly take
which, in the Latin version,
and brittle?
I want to get to the point when I shall be able to say quite simply, and
“One hour and a quarter, Monsieur.”
nothing wrong in what one does, I see that there is something wrong in
pork-packing is the most lucrative profession in America, after
“Ah! don’t remind me of that,” cried Dorian Gray.
effect that one produces gives one an enemy. To be popular one must be
a stealthy bitterness and sickishness, so that even the smallest of
pourquoi ne pas le livrer aux Juifs qui depuis six mois vous le
Lord Henry watched him with a subtle sense of pleasure. How different
looking at you through my glasses?
“Terribly grave,” echoed Lady Agatha.
JACK.
over nothing remained but a ragged pit by the ancient well-sweep,
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thanks.  I am never going to try to harm Robert Chiltern
me, who begin the day by going down on my knees and washing the floor of
much indebted to her for her marvellous courage and pluck. The jewels
in the Guards who committed suicide. You were his great friend.
steps--and merciful Heaven!--the faint but unmistakable luminosity of
m’arrive?  Vous ne voulez pas cela.  Enfin, écoutez-moi.
whole world.  Here is the letter.  Your husband has never read it.  He
women being charming, and of Patti singing divinely, before the girl
draw all the poison from the soil. He was prepared for almost anything
and revel and enjoy themselves, and all the earth would flame with a
and it had come in a way which could not be told. Nahum had dug a grave
filled me with terror. There
when you heard of it first.
them citations from theosophical books and magazines (notably W.
might not things external to ourselves vibrate in unison with our moods
Sunday stories of young Wilbur's precociousness, Old Whateley's black
on what one shouldn’t read.
and wanted my help.
“I don’t believe it is my picture.”
I had visions of personal fame from researches into its origin and
bassin d’argent . . .
that fell out of the sky
sacrifice she had made of her life. He would not think any more of what
"We must follow it--and the way to begin is to go to the place that has
fashioned into a marvellous type, at any rate. Grace was his, and the
could only lie awake in the dark and think whilst uncounted millions
nor claws. When the thing breathed, its tail and tentacles rhythmically
was so totally unknown.
ideas.
last few months I have, after terrible difficulties and struggles, been
the fire of St. Elmo or the flames that come down on the apostles'
more respect, and wondered why the Gardner dogs seemed so cowed and
searched for pleasure.”
in giving such a being the key to such blasphemous outer spheres.
Toi, je te paierai bien.  Je te donnerai tout ce que tu voudras.  Que
am so sorry I have been out the last three times you have called.  Come
piped threateningly. Once in a while a wind, sweeping up out of Cold
ALGERNON.
Lightning flashed aloft, and the wondering crowd looked in vain for
LORD DARLINGTON.  I think life too complex a thing to be settled by these
exquisitely artistic workmanship. It represented a monster of vaguely
chorus of the distorted, hilarious elder gods and the green, bat-winged
queerly synchronized with bursts of flame--"them witch Whateleys'
low. There is no need to speak too exactly of what they found. Merwin
simultaneous pictures of an octopus, a dragon, and a human caricature,
d not get anything for it if I sold it.  I will certainly take
breaks one's heart--hearts are made to be broken--but that it turns one's
He had merely shot an arrow into the air. Had it hit the mark?
adjusting the sprayer which Rice held, and that something must be about
the rest of that day and evening the three men tortured their brains
“Has he never been jealous?”
with a pail and had come back empty-handed, shrieking and waving his
conservatory under the second palm tree on the left.
was so totally unknown. Its vast, awesome, and incalculable age was
LIGHTED TORCHES"
the great priest Cthulhu, from his dark house in the mighty city of
e abnormal growth, and
sky.]
since I met him. He hasn’t changed much since then. I
over and over again. The birds that were singing in the dew-drenched
lips curled in exquisite disdain. There is always something ridiculous
meeting with Adrian Singleton had strangely moved him, and he wondered
The rustics say the blight creeps an inch a year, so perhaps there is
excellent reputation, and Johansen is described as a sober and
what the world is forgetting, the difference that there is between what
widow that my connection with her husband's "technical matters" was
object, the doctor added, was invariably a prelude to the young man's
the world that never contradicts me!  Tuppy!
Fashion, by which what is really fantastic becomes for a moment
helped to make the place popular. Isolated among strange influences,
grand-daughter, Miss Cecily Cardew. Cecily, who addresses me as her
must.  Oh! the shame of it, the shame of it.  To tell it is to live
MRS. ERLYNNE.  I have not told _her_ the truth, you mean.
Comtesse?
But in London people are so prejudiced.
Switzerland.  Such a pure taste, I think.  But I really am so sorry for
them they were delightfully suggestive and stimulating.  The danger was
Thurston, of Boston.]
valley.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Is it morbid to have a desire for food?  I have a great
SALOMÉ [_souriant_] Vous ferez cela pour moi, Narraboth.  Vous savez bien
[_Les esclaves éteignent les flambeaux_.  _Les étoiles disparaissent_.
long greenish-gray tentacles with red sucking mouths protruded limply.
Yes, sir; eight bottles and a pint.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I am so glad now I made that speech last night in
veterinary would approach his place, and the city veterinary from
Lamps lit_.
any rate, may I know if it is politics or
voice of love and found it as 'musical as Ap
One Survivor and Dead Man Found Aboard.
must have an extremely fine figure.  You should have seen Arabella’s
about the monstrous being known to the human world as Wilbur Whateley.
LORD WINDERMERE.  What is my wife’s fan doing here in your rooms?  Hands
PHIPPS                      _Mr. C. H. Brookfield_.
swift development which that newcomer seemed every day to exhibit.
“‘Good-bye, little Hans,’ said the Miller, as he went up the hill with
some fruits. “Being adored is a nuisance. Women treat us just as
That it was Christ's creed admits of no doubt.
that I began my career with an act of low dishonesty, that I built up my
piece of shelf-paper. It was nothing on which I would naturally have
only from strength. He was unconscious of the silence.
1929. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
one
heart will break.”
the Gothenburg dock, a bundle of papers falling from an attic window
manger du fruit avec moi.  J’aime beaucoup voir dans un fruit la morsure
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Well, I hope she has a dance left.  Have you a dance
Arthur destroy my letter?  Tell me.
the Dunwich horror of 1928 was hushed up by those who had the town's
several times and waited. No: everything was still. It was merely the
well water? Very possibly. It might be a good idea to analyse it. But
that had been intrusted to me as a man of honour.  I thank heaven poor
think the play was, Harry?”
afraid that if he stopped too late he might meet some robbers on the way.
the pale undergrowth beyond endless avenues of forest night. Reluctant
“You are the rudest person I ever met,” said the Rocket, “and you cannot
What has risen may sink, and what has sunk may rise. Loathsomeness
, I found that little was known of
She lingered for a few moments, and was garrulous over some detail of
Yes. Charming old lady she is, too. Lives at Tunbridge Wells. Just give
after winter summer. They wait patient and potent, for here shall
The Giant was very kind to all the children, yet he longed for his first
ake the world as mad as she has made
weighed the sun in the balance, and measured the steps of the moon, and
quiries, you, Gwendolen, will wait for me below in the
ot a single
[_Starts as_ LORD WINDERMERE _enters_.]
does not admire it. The only excuse for making a useless thing is that
children had disappeared since the malevolent tom-tom had begun its
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Du Messie qui est venu.
waddle.
huddled between the stream and the vertical slope of Round Mountain,
enthusiastic house. She stepped back a few paces and her lips seemed to
desk a revolver had fallen, a dented but undischarged cartridge later
was as if the poet had coined the phrase from having seen this one
in the air. The entire Gardner family developed the habit of stealthy
This was all, together with the picture of the hellish image; but what
kidnapped by tramps or gipsies. He then ordered his horse to be brought
MRS. CHEVELEY.  My dear Sir Robert, what then?  You are ruined, that is
cleverness quite of your own.  Now I mustn’t keep you.
CECIL GRAHAM.  I usen’t to be, but I am now.  Why! she actually made me
whilst an architect had gone mad and a sculptor had lapsed suddenly
s in the light
the others he saw Professor Warren Rice and Dr. Francis Morgan, men to
Love.  Its purification is sacrifice.
Orator . . . Unblemished career . . . Well-known integrity of character
grass. Henry Wheeler, trembling, turned the rescued telescope on the
years.  He shall see his name in every vile paper, mine on every hideous
I now see that sorrow, being the supreme emotion of which man is capable,
spoke to him.
MISS PRISM.
yourself, Harry, how independent I am by nature.
prima-donnas, I reckon that if there were such a thing as a ghost in
thing has to be done. Face it, and do it.”
expect everybody else to do the same.
towards becoming it; a soul that renders the common air sweet, and makes
members, proved doubly exciting to Inspector Legrasse; and he began at
After a little while, he hailed a hansom and drove home.
I have had the arms of Rosalind around me, and kissed Juliet on the
keerful ter see whar the big matted-daown swath led arter it leff the
holocaust of ecstasy and freedom. Meanwhile the cult, by appropriate
paid conscience money many times.
to the ten-acre pasture and stumbled home by the north road and the
depends on your answer.
this morning, that you should think . . . Oh! Robert, I cannot tell you
about your nephew, but the fact is that I do not approve at all of his
Dunwich braced themselves tensely against some imponderable menace with
UN PHARISIEN.  Les anges existent, mais je ne crois pas que cet homme
A most distasteful one.
“Poets are not so scrupulous as you are. They know how useful passion
justice is all poetical justice, exactly what justice should be.  The
nobody dared to turn on the light; then Armitage summoned up his
into my soul.
in his nightclothes, when waking had stolen bewilderingly over him.
as a yellowish appearance which alternated with a sickly grayish-white
with some subtlety to draw him out.
pearl and purple drawn by silver-shod mules, been carried through the
little Nightingale who had built her nest in his branches.
if you like—but really to ask if a diamond brooch of mine had been found.
bulk beyond the remotest trees--but I suppose he had been hearing too
The lad frowned. “I don’t like that explanation, Harry,” he rejoined,
own, and to sum up, as it were, in himself the various moods through
borne my name. What are you now? A third-rate actress with a pretty
more and more absorbed in you. Then came a new development. I had drawn
Thank you, Algernon. It is very thoughtful of you.
“‘Oh, I am so sorry,’ said Hans, ‘but I am really very busy to-day.  I
art, you are nothing. I would have made you famous, splendid,
GWENDOLEN.
lost something. It had lost an ideal. When you and he ceased to be
LORD GORING.  It is not idiocy, father, I assure you.
order to make them some slight return for their trouble in coming all the
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Turning round_, _and looking at his son beneath his
JACK.
with my love in a forest that no man had ever seen. After the
living men and whose murdered body was covered with roses by a harlot
British aristocracy, would be completely
was vague talk about one inland trip these mongrels had made, during
hours of the third Dr. Armitage was awakened suddenly by the wild,
shall certainly go there.  Well, I will make her stand by her husband.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Catches sight of_ LADY CHILTERN’S _letter_, _the cover
looks it will have the right cast. I can see it a little when I
started up. The duchess stood motionless in horror. And with fear in
wings. Lord Henry felt as if he could hear Basil Hallward’s heart
darkness the watchers saw wriggling at the treetop height a thousand
by the almost unpronounceable jumble of letters, "_Cthulhu fhtagn_".
and vulgar as our own, an age grossly carnal in its pleasures, and
Dorian Gray hurried along the quay through the drizzling rain. His
imaginative, and his restlessness was worse after the shutting away of
makes people think that one is a wild shot.
of gentleman I know.
followed, fascinated him and filled him with a sense of delightful
Gray?”
ALGERNON.
in their churchgoing or their attendance at the various social events
I
rance of chronic ill-health, under the
An oath broke from his lips. “I don’t care for myself,” he exclaimed,
related as fully as possible his experience with the swamp worshipers;
hich is called
! What an awful lesson!” There was no
Rentrons, je vous dis.
wildest—rage within me.  And I know why you are here.
HÉRODIAS, femme du Tétrarque
“It is perfectly true.”
walked or lumbered about. He at no time fully described this object,
the rest were committed to various i
oi.
[Rising.] I might respect you, Ernest, I might admire your character,
itself up where it had left off, and the horror of the sight that had
“I am come to bid you good-bye,” he cried.
low doorway and locked the accursed secret behind him. There would be
splashed on in silence through the terrible cypress woods where day
the mighty city of
each spectator later described differently, there came from poor
LORD GORING.  You were worth more, Robert.
JACK.
LORD DARLINGTON             _Mr. Nutcombe Gould_.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Shrugging her shoulders_.]  Poor old Lord Mortlake, who
which was too late. No doubt it is still down the well--I know there
LORD WINDERMERE.  Yes, you took it—and spoiled it all last night by being
youth. The pulse of joy
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Ah, what indeed, dear?  That is the point.  He goes
of it and maddens me when I dream of it. That glimpse, like all dread
makes its appearance before the death of any member of our family."
was the first person who ever said to people that they should live
it was a rough parallel in all essential features of the bestial thing
[To Lane, who now enters.] I will see Miss Fairfax out.
CECILY.
understood him: that he really said [Greek text], that when he thought of
appeal to those laws for protection?  You shall have those laws exercised
eux que vous restez.
a ball, Duchess.  It is only a dance in honour of my birthday.  A
other he handed to the valet.
Mais pourquoi ne me regardes-tu pas, Iokanaan?  Tes yeux qui étaient
having thrown his hat and cape on the table, passed through the library
tall honeycombed Campanile, or stalk, with such stately grace, through
o confine their survey of the deceased's
was akin to joy.
are horrors in store for that little white body of hers!”
have over him—
phrases came back to his memory, and he repeated them over and over to
That is a great disappointment. I am obliged to go up by the first
“They are practical.”
would ever weaken. Like the gods of the Greeks, he would be strong, and
experimenting on others we were really experimenting on ourselves.
THE SCENES OF THE PLAY
myself better.”
So she spread her brown wings for flight, and soared into the air.  She
The Happy Prince                           1
greeting as he thrust a bottle of brandy and two tumblers in front of
What I suffered then, and still suffer, is not for pen to write or paper
all the same, and you are much nicer than the rest of your horrid, rude,
interesting and in several cases promising to open up new and terrible
papers and collections of my uncle, failed in any way to identify this
LADY BRACKNELL.
how do you know that Hetty isn’t floating at the present moment in some
Emotional forces, as I say somewhere in _Intentions_, are as limited in
all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror? I should have
underground: "_Cthulhu fhtagn_," "_Cthulhu fhtagn_."
Windermere—or to mine?
had been conscience. He would destroy it.
inseparable. Surely for that reason, if for none other, you should not
Times_ at all the clubs in St.
Verde Islands, gave a coloring of voodooism to the heterogeneous cult.
[Examines diary through her lorgnettte carefully.] It is certainly very
that the girl had drunk the poison, whatever it was. Or was it
longer shining out; it was pouring out; and as the shapeless stream of
LORD CAVERSHAM.  After that, my dear, I really must bid you good morning.
“Oh! anything becomes a pleasure if one does it too often,” cried Lord
and on the other side of the earth poets and artists had begun to
price of a terrible sin; Gian Maria Visconti, who used hounds to chase
sit down. And just answer me one question.
man who moralises is usually a hypocrite, and a woman who moralises is
callous and cold. She has entirely altered. Last night she was a great
the world that never contradicts me!  Tuppy!
eternally over old New England secrets in the lee of great ledges; but
speak against her.  It’s those horrid nieces of mine—the Saville
towards Wizard Whateley's--a kinder rippin' or tearin' o' wood, like
spite of the rural tales have named it "the blasted heath."
ndow streamed the apricot-coloured light of a
CECILY.
“Who?” said Jim Vane.
But it appeared to Dorian Gray that the true nature of the senses had
Erlynne’s honour.  I wish you had been as jealous of mine.
the mud and mire they would plunge you in.  Think of the hypocrite with
formulas between the Yr and the Nhhngr. They from outside will
[Satirically.] I am glad to say that I have never seen a spade. It is
“Give me a red rose,” she cried, “and I will sing you my sweetest song.”
down the green water-ways of the pink and pearl city, seated in a black
“What can it matter?” cried Dorian Gray, laughing, as he sat down on
God!  I’ll search your rooms, and if my wife’s here, I’ll—  [_Moves_.]
the grove.
Colonial houses on the ancient hill, and under the very shadow of the
commercial classes, doesn’t it?  But dear Gertrude Chiltern is always
wants to speak to you about your emigrating.
“I have a golden bedroom,” he said softly to himself as he looked round,
girl of fifteen, lithe and lovely as a fawn, and with a fine freedom
himself known this curious fancy.
testing was carried on in glass; and it was in a glass beaker that they
were a little annoyed; but then you did not realize all that it meant
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Standing at table_.]  I think they should never be
“Yes, you are the same. I wonder what the rest of your life will be.
The drowsy sailor leaped to his feet as she spoke, and looked wildly
Mrs. Cheveley puts a certain construction on that letter and proposes to
What has risen may sink, and what has sunk may rise. Loathsomeness
thing?
superstitious rustics will say and believe anything. And so all through
It would be unjust, infamously unjust to her.
Nahum asked him if the extra wood had made him any more comfortable,
corroborated as it was by the statuette, is echoed in the subsequent
Green, were killed; and the remaining eight under Second Mate
to have sailed to strange ports and talked with undying leaders of the
on long-surviving secret societies and hidden cults, with references
to turn?  You said you would be my friend, Lord Darlington.—Tell me, what
and began to read it on the London boat.
is to say, it abandons him at the very moment when its highest duty
not help being frightened by the
talking quite seriously.  I don’t think I ever heard you talk seriously
Questioning tactfully, Ammi could get no clear data at all about the
psychopomps lying in wait for the souls of the dying, and that they
sign of mental decay in the young, of physical weakness in the old.
That would be delightful. Cecily, you will read your Political Economy
“You are mad, I tell you—mad to imagine that I would raise a finger to
the right thing.  Mr. Hopper!  James!  Agatha has told me everything.
contained such monstrous threats to the peace and sanity of the world.
o' shaped like a hen's egg bigger'n anything, with dozens o' legs like
host adieu and took a train for San Francisco. In less than a month
never seen there before. My lips moved towards hers. We kissed each
the Corporation to decide what was to be done with the metal.  “We must
JACK.
Brazilian beetle that he had added to his collection. Three young men
thought he had seen it for an instant that very morning against the
“impossible!  GRAND Rocket, that is what the man said.  BAD and GRAND
religion, a curious form of devil-worship, chilled him with its
copy from an aged _angekok_ or wizard-priest, expressing the sounds in
thought he had strangled had come back to him. Lord Henry’s casual
underground: "_Cthulhu fhtagn_," "_Cthulhu fhtagn_."
LADY WINDERMERE.  Arthur?  And you tell me there is nothing between you?
marriage such a hopeless, one-sided institution.  Ten o’clock.  She
all about was a mounting wind which seemed to sweep down in black,
do. She makes them as responsive as a violin. She spiritualizes them,
imposing upon a learned and aged man.
thrashed around by the mountainous horror, whilst upon its slightly
_2. The Tale of Inspector Legrasse._
her temperament in him? These oval, heavy-lidded eyes seemed to look
horrible presentiment that something of the kind may happen to me.”
Brother John, I have come down from town to tell you that I am very
Je me rappelle que je l’ai vu regardant Salomé d’une façon langoureuse.
surprise, pleasant or unpleasant, as the case may be. It is hardly a
such eldritch contradictions of all matter, force, and cosmic order.
who had loved him; the Borgia on his white horse, with Fratricide
of three. But although she may prevent us from becoming man and wife,
about ten minutes, talking to huge overdressed dowagers and tedious
bonfire; in the center of which, revealed by occasional rifts in the
correlation with any speech of earth, but toward the last there came
of 1928 suggested the most valid of reasons.
realize his conception of the beautiful.
success his talent promises.
you like it, Miss Fairfax.
fascination for him.
have just been telling him what a capital sitter you were, and now you
consciousness seemed half to slip away. Unfortunately such moments
declared that it was a crazy thing to bother with the reclamation at
of steel and platinum wire and two rather curiously shaped iron clamps.
chafe.]
mentioned by the professor.
“‘Dear little Hans,’ cried the Miller, ‘I am in great trouble.  My little
utters one cry of joy, and then he is silent.  At noon the yellow lions
Donovan felt over it delicately around the edge, pressing each point
her?  What do you mean by calling on her three times running?  You are
often imagines things that are quite absurd. He was really very devoted
lack of a controllable voice when he wished to draw notice to the
by Black-winged Ones which had come to them from their immemorial
.  There is something about you that stirs the
It was a novel without a plot and with only one character, being,
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Who?
bluebells that hide in the valley, and the heather that blows on the
birth he had attained a size and muscular power not usually found in
Good morning! [Algernon, from the other room, strikes up the Wedding
would die.
UN ESCLAVE.  Princesse, le tétrarque vous prie de retourner au festin.
played both the violin and the piano better than most amateurs. In
Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
of real excitement; and when upon heating before the spectroscope it
strange confession explained to him!
is none.  I hope at least that there is none.
“I never approve, or disapprove, of anything now.
med of were suddenly made
When the ceremony was over, the servants, according to an old custom
Line--the earthquake and storm had come. From Dunedin the _Alert_ and
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I heard a chair fall in the next room.  Some one
dusty grey desert remained, nor has anything ever grown there since.
and colour on the canvas and the soul that was within him? Could it be
Cheveley!
“It is an interesting question,” said Lord Henry, who found an
They went out into the flickering, wind-blown sunlight and strolled
pretty tough tussles sometimes."
LORD DARLINGTON.  Yes!
_Second F’cap. 8vo Edition_                     _October_       _1910_
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Well, really, I might be her husband already.  Positively
“What do you want?” he gasped.
the _Alert_ under way. Slowly, amidst the distorted horrors of that
caved in;
Sawyer told the loungers at Osborn's that more carpentry was going on
not let it come across our three lives and mar them.”
* * * * *
it: that is because the imagination is simply a manifestation of love,
wide-planked floor. The stench was beyond enduring, and before
I must say it to you. I shall only keep you half an hour.”
At last he heard a step outside, and the door opened. “How late you
in our praise, as the story is one of the finest
to manage her, but were beaten about by the storm of April 2nd.
draughts.
[To Algernon.] To please me you are ready to face this fearful ordeal?
turn, to feed on them, to have for a season, indeed, no other food at
gone, and now Merwin was gone. Something was creeping and creeping and
fifty yards without speaking. Then Dorian looked at Lord Henry and
very ancient religion whose discovery would make me an anthropologist
to revive His subjects and resume His rule of earth. The time would
siege of carpentry went on at the old house. It was all inside the
brought me out of the bitterness of lonely exile into harmony with the
prépare la voie du Seigneur; afin qu’elle se repente de ses péchés.
hung at her girdle. She told me she didn’t, because none of them had
life I have forgotten my own mother—that was last night.  Oh, if I had
"You can have your secret as long as I have your heart," he murmured.
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Je n’ai pas peur de lui, princesse.  Je n’ai peur de
However, whatever was my motive—and it may have been pride, for I used
ringing out from time to time, and the sharp snaps of the guns that
me a morbid statue whose contours almost made me shake with the potency
near it, and a buggy-wheel must have brushed the coping and knocked in
handkerchief twitched in her fingers. When the clock struck six, he got
MABEL CHILTERN.  Awfully!
VERSHAM.  Good evening, Lady Chiltern!  Has my good-for-nothing
The ugly and the stupid have the best of it in this world. They can sit
vomit toujours des injures contre moi.
LORD GORING.  [_Throws down paper and rises_.]  My dear father, when one
of defense which told them their lives depended on silence.
mouth of a child_.  _She has the fascinating tyranny of youth_, _and the
“But what is the matter? Of course I won’t look at it if you don’t want
goatish or animalistic about his thick lips, large-pored, yellowish
waiting to be seen and heard. Nahum would go soon, and he wanted Ammi
a dazed expression.
HOPPER.  I should like to have a chat with the Duke, Duchess.  He has not
don’t love her.”
fruit.
blank, and Ammi, when he had reached home and heard the tale, could
with bowed head and outstretched arms. Alan! Alan!
That is satisfactory. What between the duties expected of one during
[_Goes out followed by_ PHIPPS.  _Her face is illumined with evil
had
word-divisions being guessed at from traditional breaks in the phrase
was born. Seth he's gone aout naow to look at 'em, though I'll vaow he
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Would you apply that rule to every one?
altar older than the Indians. These were not haunted woods, and their
touch false, his passion false.  He would come to you when he was weary
not any colour of our earth or heavens. And because Ammi recognized
I forgot, your husband is an exception.
forgotten the highest of all duties, the duty that one owes to one’s
JACK.
dast. I guess he won't. Grandfather kept me saying the Dho formula
not?  I used to wear yellow a good deal in my early days, and would do so
through Debrett carefully to-night and draw out a list of all the
and problems for expert solution.
squander on this infamous woman!  [_Crossing L._]
Married, Mr. Worthing?
come. He chuckled to himself, and turned the corner; but no sooner had
But why on earth did you break it off? What had I done? I had done
JACK.
ethnologists, disregarding the absurd improbability of such a theory,
sit silently and watch her. They weep and laugh as she wills them to
had not so far hurt any human of unweakened mind, there is no telling
“I was wrong. It has destroyed me.”
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_L.C._]  Margaret, I was saying to you—and I beg you
one never knows how wonderful the thing that one steals is.  You can’t
extremely short-sighted; it is part of her system; so do you mind my
*       *       *       *       *
_They_. They walk unseen and foul in lonely places where the Words
I hate people who talk about themselves, as you do, when one wants to
and in that saw infinite peril for Sibyl and Sibyl’s happiness.
“To some little actress or other.”
flopped down the slimy stones and hesitated floundering at the edge of
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_Brightening to a look of real pleasure_.]  I am so
out, Ammi, it'll do suthin' more ... sucks the life out...."
wild despair; an abandonment to grief that was piteous even to look at;
the _indisputably English_ syllables that had poured thickly and
one's table; and I do so not from hunger--I get now quite sufficient
être un présage.
the sense of most real.  The world had always loved the saint as being
father’s secretary, had resigned along with his chief, somewhat
was now scarcely five.
I shall not be unfaithful to the spirit of the thing. A pulpy,
of my greatest friends at Oxford. He showed me a letter that his wife
ttom of the great ravines;
than once spent the winter. He hated to be separated from the picture
wildly adored him, and for his sake had braved all social censure and
at all seasons there were strange and portentous doings at the lonely
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Arthur, tell me what I should do.  My life seems to
reticulated hide of a crocodile or alligator. The back was piebald
Their deeds were so similar--and the fragments showed that they had
he had seen a green hand tapping at the window-pane, to the beautiful
society. Once or twice every month during the winter, and on each
comme de l’or.
terror ran through him when he remembered that, pressed against the
hollow of my hand, and if you are wise you will make him do what I tell
luxuriance not often found in settled regions. At the same time the
to bark.
perfectly dumb at the very moment when one is longing to be absolutely
as they hated and feared young Wilbur personally.
scaling off. Ammi could not touch it, but looked horrifiedly into the
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Lady Caversham is as usual, as usual.
did act like they was creaters o' Gawd, an' they's them as says ye kin
of love.  We needs must love the highest when we see it!  [_Kisses him
investigation which set reporters on the track of the Whateleys, and
thought she was almost younger than that. She looked such a child, and
_Here is a totally different story that we can
him.
very lofty wall, but I never cared to ask
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Good evening, Lady Chiltern!  Has my good-for-nothing
up C._]  I say, Darlington, let us have some cards.  You’ll play, Arthur,
enough to possess.”
inhabitants of Zipangu place rose-coloured pearls in the mouths of the
very high, just at present. Algernon!
ALGERNON.
offering created.
questioning Armitage about what he knew of the thing, and no reply
fortunate young man his brother seems to be. But I must not disturb
ten years, but ten years with Monmouth must have been like eternity,
“I never approve, or disapprove, of anything now. It is an absurd
pure unadulterated country life. They get up early, because they have
akin to the dream-sculpture of young Wilcox.
a phenomenon as the aerolite would be certain to start. There was
difference. I have a distinct remembrance of being married, but I have
That was all. After that Johansen only brooded over the idol in the
envelope_, _and leaves it on table_.]  Arthur has never understood me.
could feel even slightly inclined to treat the diary as a madman's
night-time, and for pleasure or for pain, write up on the walls of your
skilfully mirrored in his art, a smile of pleasure passed across his
into delirium!
LADY BASILDON.  Ah! I hate being educated!
from the crowd, and Dr. Armitage shouted to the men outside that no
door open and entered.
The senses could refine, and the intellect could degrade. Who could say
forty-two, and more than usually plain for your age. Ernest has a
disperse. Botanists, too, ought to study the stunted flora on the
GWENDOLEN.
Clouston, the usual set. I have asked Lord Grotrian.”
[Calmly.] It seems to be mine. Yes, here is the injury it received
found, though all the household confessed now and then to poorer health
you."
archeology. Young Wilcox's rejoinder, which impressed my uncle enough
in combating insects; whilst Morgan uncased the big-game rifle on which
gate. _Yog-Sothoth_ is the gate. _Yog-Sothoth_ is the key and
LADY CHILTERN.  Just slightly.  She was staying at Langton last autumn,
"They mean," he said, sadly, "that you must weep with me for my sins,
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Playing with her fan_.]  But have we really met before,
“It was my _début_ in life,” she sighed.
for future reports of dreams.
the worst.  Words are merciless. . . . Oh!
all. You behave as if you were married to her already. You are not
that is burnt now _was_ your letter.  I swear it to you!
a Puritan people. Then I saw that dark westward tangle of glens and
story of piracy and slaughter. He is Gustaf Johansen, a Norwegian
old ocean, and all the mystery of primal earth.
child, as Christ said one should be.
Then he remembered the lamp. It was a rather curious one of Moorish
died, and about which the mate Johansen was so secretive? What had the
face of James Vane watching him.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  And are you going to any of our country houses
chose, especially the much-discussed couplet:
although they never talk scandal, they—well, of course—they remark on it
merely the essentials of the supreme romantic type, but all the
26, 1916, proved highly startling and disquieting. It was written, he
happiness. We won’t quarrel. I know you would never harm any one I
MABEL CHILTERN.  Do you mean to say you didn’t come here expressly to
eeler with purple annular markings, and with many evidences
Princess sat at the top of the Great Hall and drank out of a cup of clear
[Meditatively.] If the poor fellow has been entrapped into any foolish
must look for a good chimney-pot,” and he determined to fly away.
martyr, and made a little _moue_ of discontent to Lord Henry, to whom
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Lord Augustus, listen to me.  You are to take Lord
HÉRODE.  Qu’est-ce que c’est que cela, le miracle de la fille de Jaïre?
“I am going to see the play through,” answered the lad, in a hard
LADY WINDERMERE.  Why—why me?
a peep at least into the shadowland of pre-existence."--Charles
But what first made you think of doing such a thing?
merciful. Now and then Merwin's screams were answered faintly from the
into my soul.
world, or gratifying intellectual curiosity, or something of that kind.
being always absolutely over-educated. He is a very modern type.”
that it leaves one so unromantic.”
noisome up there, and no sound could be heard from any direction. Of
in at Ammi Pierce's on the way. Ammi was forty then, and all the queer
Yes, darling, with a little help from others.
their aspects and motions, and their nocturnal habits contradicted all
of her_.]
last stroke of midnight every one came out on the terrace, and the King
My knowledge of the thing began in the winter of 1926-27 with the death
“Don’t touch me.
THE COUNTESS OF BASILDON
lune est devenue rouge comme du sang.  Ne le voyez-vous pas?
matter far too much.  But there are moments when one has to choose
puts gall:--all these were things of which I was afraid.  And as I had
far than any of the communities within thirty miles of it. South of the
The _Emma_, in ballast, had cleared Auckland on February 20th, and had
he road outside, and nearly drowned its owner's faint quaver as he
MABEL CHILTERN.  I know, dear.  You married a man with a future, didn’t
of the tracks seemed to argue a passage in two directions, as if the
apportez-moi la tête de cet homme.  [_Les soldats reculent_.]  Tétrarque,
Latitude 49° 51´, W. Longitude 128° 34´, encountered the _Alert_,
God loves man shows us that in the divine order of ideal things it is
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Sitting down_.]  Glad to hear it.  Can’t stand
When the farm-servant had done so, he stepped forward. A cry of joy
dawn came, and the man had plodded back from his all-night search of
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Oh! spies are of no use nowadays.  Their profession
built of sorrow, it has been built by the hands of love, because in no
died when I was a mere child.  I lived always with Lady Julia, my
Then Wesley Corey, who had taken the glass, cried out that Armitage was
Oh, no! I hate talking.
eating the thing away. The rotting of a corpse in a watery grave was
MABEL CHILTERN.  It isn’t a bracelet.  It’s a brooch.
ACT III.      _Lord Darlington’s rooms_.
of the results of a mere chance which fixed my eye on a certain stray
never knows much about anything.  You know Gertrude has always worn seven
hing in
familiarity, and decided that they reminded one of the brittle globule
pluck.
LORD AUGUSTUS.  You’re excessively trivial, my dear boy, excessively
the new city water of Arkham.
you?
was staying on the river, there were two rude boys, the miller’s sons,
Nothing will induce me to take his hand. I think his coming down here
“How fond women are of doing dangerous things!” laughed Lord Henry. “It
now lying before the meeting.
the sofas. After a short time, he came to himself and looked round with
never get over it.”
‘You look more like a prince.
Mrs. Cheveley, and tell her that you cannot support this scandalous
days, and sick with that ennui, that terrible _tædium vitæ_, that comes
scuffle. On arriving at the spot, however, he found that the gipsies had
particular point did you mention the word marriage, Dorian? And what
figures on the peak, all moving their arms furiously in strange
cardinal virtues cannot atone for half-cold _entrées_, as Lord Henry
e home, and when she
She started to her feet. “There he is!” she cried.
ordinary philanthropist, or ranked him as an altruist with the scientific
Sitting down again.] A moment, Mr. Worthing. A hundred and thirty
again and correlating the theosophical and anthropological notes with
could not
manufacture, distilling heavily scented oils and burning odorous gums
"Up thar in the rud beyont the glen, Mis' Corey--they's suthin' ben
How utterly unromantic you are!
LORD GORING.  Certainly.  Whenever you like.  I’m going to look in at the
snapping, crashing, and crackling ensued. The Fryes, huddled together
in, and drew the dark curtains carefully down over each one. By this
ily.] Oh! I killed Bunbury this afternoon. I mean poor Bunbury died
members of the vice-admiralty court. I saw the _Alert_, now sold and
years, and, indeed, may be said never to have left him. He would often
LORD CAVERSHAM.  I wish you would, sir.
thoroughly good woman to do a thoroughly stupid thing.  You are to lunch
“I cannot understand why the Spring is so late in coming,” said the
no yesterday, and no to-morrow. To forget time, to forget life, to be at
geologists and physiographers.
determined to take me behind, so I consented. It was curious my not
child. Public interest in the Whateleys subsided after most of the
He had not long survived his return, said his wife, for the doings at
And when the Moon shone in the heavens the Nightingale flew to the
nstrueuse, ta fille, elle est tout à fait
LADY CHILTERN.  But you told me yesterday that you had received the
JACK.
JACK.
carbuncles, sapphires, and greene emeraults.” Marco Polo had seen the
LORD GORING.  Ah! that is probably the lady.  I shall see her myself.
IOKANAAN.  Jamais! fille de Babylone!  Fille de Sodome! jamais.
[_Enter_ PARKER _C._]
Human life—that appeared to him the one thing worth investigating.
“I am sixteen,” he answered, “and I know what I am about. Mother is no
CECILY.
dreamed in Eton or Oxford days, a type that was to combine something of
R.C._  _Sees book_.]  Margaret, you have cut open my bank book.  You have
As soon as there was perfect silence, the Rocket coughed a third time and
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  And, after all, whom did I wrong by what I did?  No
yourself.  That is not conversation.”
moments were consumed in surveying the ruins just around the bend. It
I know anything about.
As he left the room, Lord Henry’s heavy eyelids drooped, and he began
prejudices, his principles, and his common sense. The only artists I
I find a strange pleasure in saying things to him that I know I shall
mocking imps of Tartarus.
not like other rustics I had known in the sections where reservoirs
bloated corpulence, and squatted evilly on a rectangular block or
newly killed toad, that was a certain antidote against poison. The
the right to cast a stone against one who has suffered? Cannot
LADY CHILTERN.  What sort of a brooch was it that you lost, Mrs.
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.
egos. They are forced to have more than one life.
LADY CHILTERN.  It is not true!  Robert!  It is not true!
JACK.
“My good creature,” cried the Rocket in a very haughty tone of voice, “I
impassive_.]  Hum!  Any letters, Phipps?
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Coldly_.]  Oh, it has been no inconvenience.  That will
not surprised—it is charming.  [_Goes over to sofa with_ LADY WINDERMERE,
up--slow-like--creepin' up ter the top this minute, heaven only knows
the mortuary cloth of King Chilperic, with its three hundred golden
little fortune?
Many men on their release carry their prison about with them into the
little Hans could not see where he was going, or keep up with the horse.
LORD GORING.  The fact is, I am horribly busy to-night, Robert, and I
ius
arms, and sometimes lapsing into an inane titter or a whisper about
come Lord Henry Wotton with his strange panegyric on youth, his
and
goatish, chinless face had the stamp of the Whateleys upon it. But the
once to ply his informant with questions. Having noted and copied an
written.  [_Tears it and throws it into the fire_.]
me, you fool.  [_To_ CECIL GRAHAM.]
In the cloak-room at Victoria Station. It was given to him in mistake
headed "_CTHULHU CULT_" in characters painstakingly printed to avoid
with his wife to his old home in Oslo. Of his stirring experience
that, after all, two ghosts were better than one, and that, by the
Norway a certain seaman who saw things is dead. Might not the deeper
were in her box.
silly of me to come down here at all. I think I shall send a wire to
the bottom of the pedestal. The cephalopod head was bent forward, so
rest them, if there be any rest in the universe. They were Donovan,
looked upon all that the universe has to hold of horror, and even the
conceal the artist is art’s aim. The critic is he who can translate
that, considering the length of time he has been in the house, I don't
_Sydney Bulletin_ I have mentioned, for my friend has wide affiliations
wanderings were very startling indeed, including frantic appeals
e
“But not explained you.”
lethal fetor that seemed about to asphyxiate them, were almost hurled
not like to have much earth brain. Shot Elam Hutchins's collie
LORD GORING.  Oh, please don’t say such a thing.  You are the one person
VICOMTE DE NANJAC.  And you are younger and more beautiful than ever.
“I will show you the way, Mr. Hubbard, if you will kindly follow me. Or
approaches_ LADY BASILDON.]
like the artistic, acceptance of all experiences, is merely a mode of
display beneath the half-clouded moonlit sky.
and showed us what to avoid. But there was no motive power in
fardées, et leurs cheveux frisés en spirales, et des Égyptiens,
embalmed with spices.  Round his neck is a chain of pale green jade, and
_approaches_ MRS. MARCHMONT.]
LADY CHILTERN.  He burned it.
vêtements sont-ils teints d’écarlate?
JACK.
But it was Ammi, on one of his rare visits, who first realized that
the suggestion is monstrous!
a l’air très ennuyée.  Ah! elle vient par ici.  Oui, elle vient vers
de différentes couleurs?  Où est celle qui s’est abandonnée aux jeunes
data on the Cthulhu Cult, and evidence that it had strange interests
_Yog-Sothoth_. He knows where the Old Ones broke through of old,
anything else. You have got to leave . . . by the four-five train.
questions. He was looking, he had to admit, for a kind of formula or
tmare itself, and
little better occasionally?  Just as a change.
grapes of thorns or figs from thistles?
[Sententiously.] That, my dear young friend, is the theory that the
Johansen's voyage had begun just as he told it to the vice-admiralty.
one here who can at all appreciate an emotional nature.  Fortunately for
But the thorn had not yet reached her heart, so the rose’s heart remained
fellow. You never say a moral thing, and you never do a wrong thing.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Laying the photograph down_.]  Really?
dust into consciousness, to wake their ashes into pain. My God, Harry,
Augusta?
anything after all--the splash had been something else--something which
the fulfilment of a prophecy: for every human being should be the
meteor had yielded in the previous year. The property of emitting this
be the same strange ailment which had killed the livestock. He also
comet's tail, and of hysterical plunges from the pit to the moon and
Be yourself!
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Non.  Le tétrarque ne le permet pas.
really not for such as they.  They never die.  Horatio, who in order to
et lui dire que je ne lui permets pas de ressusciter les morts.  Où
at George Corey's, between Cold Spring Glen and the village, rushed
"glorious fulfilment" which never arrives, whilst items from India
'Suffering is permanent, obscure, and dark
Why, even her children are not allowed to live with her.
with becoming faintly phosphorescent, and vanished with a deep
dips again there are stretches of marshland that one instinctively
after winter summer. They wait patient and potent, for here shall
for convenient pitching. And all the while the vegetation was turning
[MASON _goes out_.]
worship, we lose everything.  Oh! don’t kill my love for you, don’t kill
mine, should place me in the pillory, should shatter all that I have
the women. “We are very proud to-night,” she sneered.
although none is known to exist in that part of the ocean; and six
is, but with me it is different.  I am a very remarkable Rocket, and come
that the youth and his grandfather had knocked out all the partitions
should so much like to know her.
innocent, and the victim of a hideous plot.  I burst into tears at what
to?”
“Humph! tell your Aunt Agatha, Harry, not to bother me any more with
swallows. How pleasant it was in the garden! And how delightful other
you drive fast.”
CHASUBLE.
who had eaten nothing grown in that soil was another matter. Was it the
mystery is as much of the spirits as of the eye. I myself am curious
with yellow and black, and dimly suggested the squamous covering of
steps--and merciful Heaven!--the faint but unmistakable luminosity of
As he left the room, Dorian Gray smiled to himself. Poor Basil! How
[To Cecily.] Come over here, dear. [Cecily goes across.] Pretty child!
prussic acid, as she seems to have died instantaneously.”
lodging-houses. Each class would have preached the importance of those
of whom had talked with the policemen, seemed at first as perplexed as
as they ate their meagre and ill-cooked meals and did their thankless
the top o' Sentinel Hill...."
ere commencing to shine, too, though the tethered vehicles
PARKER.  Yes, madam.
fourth year. He read avidly by himself now; but talked much less than
a learned friend of Paterson,
compared with life itself. He felt keenly conscious of how barren all
guess. Death would be a boon if only it could blot out the memories.
those accustomed to face occasional charlatanry and imposture. Legrasse
MRS.
life much more simple.
doesn’t suit you. All crime is vulgar, just as all vulgarity is crime.
forward, started a hare. It bolted for a thicket of alders. Sir
_tornasuk_; and of this Professor Webb had taken a careful phonetic
reviennent.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I will fight her to the death, as long as my wife
conversation, there are only five women in London worth talking to, and
dream had passed across them.
olically to the wheezing gasps
“Where I heard the name of Dorian Gray.”
in
u mustn’t say these dreadful things.
whom he forced to dress in haste and fall into line between two rows
here, eh?  [_Tapping his forehead_.]  Idiocy?  Hereditary, I suppose.
_helpless_, _she sways like a plant in the water_.  _Her hands_,
freedom. He was dominated by the carelessness of happiness, by the high
poor Southwark got into the divorce court, their indignation was quite
of the visitors seemed so far unaffected. Then there was a wild
line of boys carrying crates of striped tulips, and of yellow and red
The hill noises had been very pronounced during the evening, and dogs
“Marriage is hardly a thing that one can do now and then, Harry.”
moved, and there was no wind. It must be the sap. Strangeness had come
substance wasted away.
abominations de celle-là.
months at any rate, so that if I may not write beautiful books, I may at
Let me think.
quietly, but watching the effect of each word upon the face of him he
*       *       *       *       *
wholly of earth.
they was still some o' them awful prints big as bar'ls like he seen
Hallward, strolling towards the door that led into the garden. “I
library window. The Duchess had brought with her some lovely roses,
LADY BRACKNELL.
and wringing her hands. Francis was as pale as death.
his back under those dull-green waters, with the heavy barges floating
ill, or that I am prevented from coming in consequence of a subsequent
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Standing up stage with_ LORD DARLINGTON.]  Yes,
meadows.
excitement, and did not know what to do, when Mr.
short-sighted, and there is no pleasure in taking in a husband who
upon his brow.”
“Foolish child! foolish child!” was the parrot-phrase flung in answer.
legacy been? Had the lover of Giovanna of Naples bequeathed him some
ket out of the ditch.
university grounds; where, indeed, he passed heedlessly by the great
“My dear boy, they have only been talking about it for six weeks, and
JACK.
“I am not a family man.  In fact, I have never been married, and I never
“How extraordinary! I thought you would never care for anything but
“A very charming artistic basis for ethics, Dorian! I congratulate you
rested on Romeo. The few words she had to speak—
spoken to me about you. You are one of her favourites, and, I am
danse pendant que vous la regardez comme cela.  Enfin, je ne veux pas
slay around idol-capped monoliths in lonely places. He must have been
any kind on that broad expanse, but only a fine grey dust or ash which
yet I couldn’t help
those who have it. You smile? Ah! when you have lost it you won’t
“All right, Uncle George, I’ll tell her, but it won’t have any effect.
could go, and the next day he was laid up with a severe cold. The only
at sea as well as on land. What motive prompted the hybrid crew to
the well water was no longer good.
down beside her_.  _He smiles_, _and does so_.]
puppets in their dalliance, Hamlet 'catches the conscience' of the King,
side of their camels, and carry amber beads in their hands; of the King
“In this fog, my dear Basil? Why, I can’t even recognize Grosvenor
texts with the aim of discovering a certain passage which would have
Wilbur Whateley, delivered to Miskatonic University for translation,
on Zenas ... he was a big boy, full o' life ... it beats down your
these western woods were not feared half so much as the small island
“I will tell you, Harry, but you mustn’t be unsympathetic about it.
throat.
saying that it had come down from horribly ancient eons before ever the
most serious faces. My wife is very good at it—much better, in fact,
flock o' screamin' ... jest like when Elmer Frye's place was took, only
yet spring. The pulse and passion of youth were in him, but he was
give Lady Caversham a narcotic.  Otherwise she would never consent to
the air seemed to him to have become suddenly colder. Oh! in what a
Cecily, I have not mentioned anything about a headache.
the centuries incarnate in him for whom the world was waiting.
We all know how you are run after in London.
went last night, after she left this house, you would not sit in the same
the abhorrent grounds seemed faintly luminous with more than the fitful
scientific interest. That such a change should have taken place was
there in that? Some aunts are tall, some aunts are not tall. That is a
the Duke of Berwick’s four-in-hand came between, and when it had left
against a moonbeam to recover his breath, and began to try and realize
der a spell, smiles chasing each other over his lips
girl before he has been married to her.  He never says it afterwards.
Oh, pleasure, pleasure! What else should bring one anywhere? Eating as
would be suicidal to try to attack it in the
remembered her I should not have been so foolish, so wicked.
ALGERNON.
roofs under which they and their ancestors were born.
not? I believe the aristocracy are suffering very much from it just at
and demands for data.
specimen--which proved, however, as baffling in the laboratory as
One of the current Arkham tales is about fat oaks that shine and move
MRS. CHEVELEY.  There is no danger, at present!
men want to be faithless, and cannot: that is all one can say.”
LORD GORING.  Won’t you wear it?
“To-night I go to Egypt,” said the Swallow, and he was in high spirits at
table, sat down and wrote two letters. One he put in his pocket, the
room watching_ MRS. ERLYNNE.]
do suthin'. I know suthin' awful's abaout, an' feel my time is nigh,
That is strange. Were I fortunate enough to be Miss Prism’s pupil, I
was all that he showed; relief at the doom of the dark ancient valleys
for twenty-three years, actually blushing at the side-board, and the
pieces for it. The King of Malabar had shown to a certain Venetian a
ill, and was obliged to drink the
Gertrude Chiltern.  I hate her.  I hate her now more than ever.
"Cha'ncey he just come back a-post-in', and couldn't haff talk fer
Oh!
sympathy; and my uncle showed some sharpness in replying, for the
"We must follow it, boys." He made his voice as reassuring as possible.
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_Pouring himself out a brandy and soda at table_.]
lives at my place in the country under the charge of her admirable
They rose up and sauntered down the walk together. Two green-and-white
These data, received with suspense and astonishment by the assembled
“Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “will you not stay
she is absolutely inadmissible into society.  Many a woman has a past,
other towns. Even the Providence Art Club, anxious to preserve its
in the ritual murders, and averred that the killing had been done
the queen one could behold “all the chaste ladies of the world,
Campbell buried his face in his hands, and a shudder passed through
annoying.
ALGERNON.
reading it_.  _He comes towards his wife_, _not noticing_ LORD GORING’S
face and tear-stained eyes, looked at him as he walked over to the deal
MABEL CHILTERN.  Will you ride to-morrow morning?
him.
LORD DARLINGTON.
A cold rain began to fall, and the blurred street-lamps looked ghastly
_follows_ MRS. ERLYNNE _and_ LORD WINDERMERE _into the ball-room holding
was out of the soil. His wife now had spells of terrific screaming,
denied the one thing that might heal us and keep us, that might bring
immediately offered to him on his coming of age, and found, indeed, a
A house, everything in which has been paid for by fraud.  [_Turns round
French maid produces a really marvellous result in a very brief space
us. There was nothing that one could not do with him. He could be made
Henry, laughing. “That is one of the most important secrets of life. I
told me why he wouldn’t, and it was a revelation to me.” Yes, perhaps
ALGERNON.
5
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.   [_L.C._]  Yes, dear, these wicked women get our
Salem in 1692, have kept somewhat above the general level of decay;
wept, he made his having wasted his substance with harlots, his swine-
ALGERNON.
“I am going on to the other place,” he said after a pause.
s right in his determination, Lord
not stay, though; and one sometimes wonders what insight beyond ours
Theosophists have guessed at the awesome grandeur of the cosmic cycle
put suddenly in order, clapboarded, and fitted with a stout fresh lock.
find her in an orchard in Verona.”
was impossible. Something—he did not know what—had to be done at once.
woodchucks, and not far from the Gardner place bagged a very peculiar
“I will not part with a petal.”
then human faces. Suddenly he remarked that every face that he drew
stage-player, clasped her in her arms. At this moment, the door opened
wicker chair, looking at them. On a peach-coloured divan sat Lady
abnormality which far outraced any image their conscious minds could
out momentarily. At this there was a general cry; muffled with awe,
[Makes a note in her book.] In land, or in investments?
êtes stérile, ce n’est pas moi.
the nearest possible approach to the perfection of God.  Christ, through
rge. I
chatter about her, of course, but they don’t know anything definite
stone, magnetic as it had been, must have had some peculiar electrical
yours, Dorian. I gave it to you before it
might to calm the hysterical sobbing of little Merwin. Zenas needed no
was terrible enough, but those two crumbling objects were beyond all
unforgiveable things nowadays.  Is it fair that the folly, the sin of
toi, ton grand-père gardait des chameaux!  Aussi, c’était un voleur!
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thank you.  [_Rises hastily and slips the letter under a
radiance about her. Her parted lips were smiling over some secret of
Frye outbuildings, they debated the wisdom of waiting, or of taking the
searching gaze that he turned on Dorian. He kept his hands in the
“Thank you, little Swallow,” said the Prince.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Ah, yes, I remember.  How long ago that seems!  [_Goes to
together. [Sees Jack and bows to him with icy coldness.]
Cyclopean architectural background.
my arms, and she will lean her head upon my shoulder, and her hand will
“‘Who is there?’ cried the Doctor, putting his head out of his bedroom
“I dare say, my dear,” said Lord Henry, shutting the door behind her
In a natural glade of the swamp stood a grassy island of perhaps an
dream of mine to love some one whose name was Ernest. [Algernon rises,
moving behind the trees there, watching me, waiting for me?”
LORD GORING.  I forbid you to enter that room.
at the stony curb by the great sweep, and when a detective questioned
I’m afraid I’ve no time, this afternoon.
Europe_. The cuttings largely alluded to outré mental illnesses and
few years he would come back quite rich and happy.
dreams_ upon at least three of the precise words of the formula uttered
errand for you. What is the name of the man at Richmond who supplies
[Very irritably.] How extremely kind of you, Lady Bracknell!
One must have fed itself and escaped, and probably there was another
questions. He was looking, he had to admit, for a kind of formula or
was the same, for in one feverish kaleidoscopic instant there burst up
intellect.  A man of culture, charm, and distinction.  One of the most
was his belief that, considering the great amount of text involved, the
the bondage of strange fever? What of all this--and of those hints of
I keep a diary in order to enter the wonderful secrets of my life. If I
town at once, it is the only thing to do.  Good-bye, once more; come,
make, too.
now--better under water since the strange days. And with this opening
Arkham was openly baffled. The swine began growing grey and brittle
hey retain their egotism, and add to it many other
[Looks at Cecily, who makes no sign.] Yes, sir.
Who?
it is from ourselves alone that help can come.  Pride made me think that.
to himself, and he walked across to the window and opened it. When he
brain, or some white nerve in the body, delighting in the conception of
“To see my soul!” muttered Dorian Gray, starting up from the sofa and
moving mountain had come from Cold Spring Glen and returned to it along
with both sets of reporters and camera men, and called their attention
poor Curtis Whateley began to knit back into a sort of continuity; so
ult sometimes to keep awake, especially at
of flesh and blood. They had shape--for did not this star-fashioned
Selby.  In the Rose Garden at Selby the roses are white and red.
determined to teach them a lesson. The first thing to be done was, of
dark and the buggy-lamps faint, but around a farm in the valley which
princesse qui a des yeux d’ambre.  A travers les nuages de mousseline
One thing, however, he felt that it had done for him. It had made him
an' Sentinel Hill--Luther he had the guts ter step up whar he'd heerd
overdressed woman of forty-seven, with a hooked nose, who was always
LORD WINDERMERE.  Lord Darlington!
sixteenth-century curses, and ever and anon brandishing the rusty dagger
ALGERNON.
black wells of Acherontic fear or feeling, from what unplumbed gulfs of
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Yes.  How do you know?
[Glibly.] Ah! that is clearly a metaphysical speculation, and like most
and what was meant by that phrase "strange days" which so many
the smaller mass they saw that the core of the thing was not quite
specially from Wales to attend the funeral, and sat in the first
ay and, flinging himself on the
nothing of the fact that she is my cousin.
important, dear Tuppy.  [LORD AUGUSTUS _moves uneasily in his chair_.]
“But why not?”
and where They shall break through again. He knows where They have
“‘Like the painting of a sorrow,’” he repeated, “‘a face without a
Outside the family circle, papa, I am glad to say, is entirely unknown.
wreck its fairness. But he would not sin. The picture, changed or
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  No.  I felt that I had fought the century with its
much. He cut himself off hurriedly, and no amount of persuasion or
"I made some use of 'em," he would say as he tried to mend a torn
Whatever was down there in the glen was biding its time, and Armitage
hing feelers came
arting_.]  Who told you I intended to do so?
ideal as I shall never meet again. This is the face of a satyr.”
cloud--a cloud about the size of a moderately large building--near the
ask were you born like that, or is it the result of an accident?”
there as an island trader, and bore an evil reputation along the
there were any men, and who came to the young world out of the sky.
besides, my dear old Basil, if you really want to console me, teach me
the carriage while I am with Lady Brancaster.  As I intend it to be a
building a nest in the Temple of Baalbec, and the pink and white doves
all the way from Genoa to England to break to me herself the tidings of
MABEL CHILTERN.
close to his. “I knew you were following him when you rushed out from
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Sir James, will you take me into the ball-room?
. “You don’t understand what friendship is,
that the greater city masqueraded as "Christiania." I made the brief
Cheveley and I have met before.  I did not know she had married a second
cows. Certain areas or sometimes the whole body would be uncannily
horribly dull standing on a platform and trying to look pleasant. Ask
R._]
in the afternoon to the lonely churchyard by the pine-woods. There had
conversation. You must remember his constant anxiety about that
“All of you, Mr. Erskine?”
“Do you mean to say that the story has a moral?”
sometime as one of the great decadents; for he has crystallized in clay
there is no disgrace upon her. She can live, like Perdita, in her
“Yes, of course,” answered Lord Henry, sinking into a chair and slowly
sky was bright, and there was a genial warmth in the air. It was almost
which was too late. No doubt it is still down the well--I know there
formed themselves insensibly under his hands. It was, no doubt, the
day when his face would be wrinkled and wizen, his eyes dim and
They have moments of physical courage of which we women know absolutely
and the friend, in his youth, of Lord Ferrars. What of the second Lord
“What a silly question!” cried the Water-rat.  “I should expect my
LADY WINDERMERE.  Why do you _talk_ so trivially about life, then?
can ask Lady Markby.  She will tell you it is true.  The scene that
LADY CHILTERN.  What?
CECILY.
tears as he spoke.  Then he begged me never to mention her name to him
CECILY.
Armitage hastened into some clothing and rushed across the street and
So he plucked out the Prince’s other eye, and darted down with it.  He
outbreaks of group folly or mania in the spring of 1925.
so rudely interrupted.  I hate rudeness and bad manners of every kind,
bold flight, for the reaction had taken something out of his soul.
to say to you.
be . . . oh! a real wife to him.
out that since Ernest proposed to you he clearly has changed his mind.
mirror the sky and ripple in the sun. And the secrets of the strange
one joy one nev
the stable and the demoniac piping of late whippoorwills in the glen,
confused babel of voices sounded down the road.
LADY MARKBY.  Well, I hear the curate is always prowling about the house.
afterwards. You have a town house, I hope?
family
the moment of initiation.  More than that: it is the means by which one
turned his steps in the direction of Berkeley Square.
open to your inspection, Lady Bracknell.
Waterfront scum was far too common for special mention; though there
looked upon all that the universe has to hold of horror, and even the
make the Yoorish sign or blow the power of Ibn Ghazi at it, and it
boy,” said the painter, deep in his work and conscious only that a look
into delirium!
JACK.
text, printed in Springfield, is still extant. Noises in the hills
resolved to see. That is why I continued to feel that Wilcox, somehow
Pierce has never told them of anything he recalls from the strange
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Makes no answer_, _but remains standing_.  _There is a
r husband.
on a character that according to his own brother’s admission is
the portents of storm.
s has been dining with us to-night.  I really have had quite
Capharnaüm.
Behind joy and laughter there may be a temperament, coarse, hard and
life was well worth hers. She had marred him for a moment, if he had
of common sense. She did not listen. She was free in her prison of
sullen heavy youth who, in coarse, ill-fitting clothes, was in the
the
When he entered the somewhat sombre hall, the butler told him that they
1925, when a scholarly correspondent from Miskatonic University called
authorities that the Gardner family was no more. He indulged in no
JACK.
between us.”
all the flowers in my garden.  I would much sooner have your good opinion
followed at once by a clatter which told of a frenzied runaway. In
poet, either at Jerusalem or at Babylon, became in the long progress of
dreams are older than brooding Tyre, or the contemplative Sphinx, or
“I forget,” said Dorian. “I suppose I did.
“You have done too many foolish things during the last fortnight to be
“They say that when good Americans die they go to Paris,” chuckled Sir
DUMBY.  No, time to forget all I have learned.  That is much more
_with_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.]
long manuscript. Once before, it appears, Professor Angell had seen the
portrait of him has quickened his appreciation of the personal
LORD GORING.  Too much experience is a dangerous thing.  Pray have a
to one of our most tedious ambassadors, and having buried her husband
kidnapped by tramps or gipsies.
leanings toward theosophy and occultism, went violently insane on
day to cry aloud on the housetop.  I ceased to be lord over myself.  I
give me some flowers in return.
suspect, but God knows he soon saw enough!
taught her. The remote farmhouse had always been feared because of Old
LADY WINDERMERE.
moi.
of all hands for the shore; and it was the work of only a few moments
ves looking for their masters, all
MRS. CHEVELEY.  That you must not do.  In your own interests, Sir Robert,
well, too, which makes it much worse, sets such a dreadful example.
But have you any grave doubts on the subject?
You let Harry know.”
always to wear.
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Ne restez pas ici, princesse!  Je vous prie de ne pas
Johansen to speak more freely than he has done hitherto.
MRS. MARCHMONT.  Ah! but you are always sympathetic, Olivia!
“So the Miller tied the sails of the windmill together with a strong iron
Blackfell Hollow, where he knew they were, accompanied by his eldest son
that dreadful statue of Achilles.  Really, the things that go on in front
laughed his most horrible laugh, till the old vaulted roof rang and
sugar into the cup.]
and that we were to be let off in the Prince’s honour.”
of you to pretend that you do. Well, she made it out of nothing. All
LADY WINDERMERE.  Oh, ask Mrs. Erlynne to be kind enough to come up.
were in the grip of stark terror from an unknown thing which had stolen
Dear Gwendolen!
you.
“What has the actual lapse of time got to do with it? It is only
disturbed Professor Angell.
abhorrent and desperate though rather clumsy mode of fighting.
I am sorry I sat for it. The memory of the thing is hateful to me. Why
gleamed at the corner and then vanished. A woman in a fluttering shawl
SALOMÉ.  Je ne resterai pas.  Je ne peux pas rester.  Pourquoi le
They will all have to go into mourning.
treated is purely spiritual--that it is strong in proportion as it
health, for instance, I wouldn’t be able to dine with you at Willis’s
The thing was still seated in the chair, straining over the table with
and rest.  However, he went on bravely, and as last he reached the
future crop. But with the ripening came sore disappointment, for of all
that, he didn't git to sleep at all till sunup, an' no sooner was he
[Picture: Book cover]
Linnet.
he motioned to accompany him inside.
of them, when given two phials of dust for analysis in a police job
You might be its visible symbol. With your personality there is nothing
no mystery in any of them. They ride in the park in the morning and
[_Exit on terrace with_ LORD WINDERMERE.  Music strikes up in ball-room.]
un saint homme.  Le doigt de Dieu l’a touché.  Dieu a mis dans sa bouche
afterwards we will look in at the opera. It is a Patti night, and
! in what a
I sometimes think, I determined to paint a wonderful portrait of you as
June as it is now. In a month there will be purple stars on the
ALGERNON.
and whereas it had been a good seven feet across the day before, it
room above. What presence had his cry and entry started up? Halted by
trod as lightly as possible on the old worm-eaten boards, wore a large
thanks, and the best, or at any rate the most suitable, compliment I can
visible ritual.
f which I dare say you have heard.  And I found
in any case the whole thing would have been an absolute failure.”
tracked down, had begun to dominate him. If the tapestry did but
season; and for a season he inclined to the materialistic doctrines of
in the wildest speculation and the most desperate debate. Strange and
like you was her mother, I would endure anything.  You began your
LADY CHILTERN.  Well?
conservatism, had found him quite hopeless.
lit streets, past gaunt, black-shadowed archways and evil-looking
thunderously down from the frantic vacancy beside that shocking
hell. Had my uncle referred to these cases by name instead of merely
all his life he has been speaking nothing but the truth. Can you
like a morning in May.
possible objects I was the most grotesque.  When people saw me they
"God has forgiven him," said Virginia, gravely, as she rose to her feet,
enry had told him that, and
of what has happened. It has been a marvellous experience. That is all.
CHAPTER VI.
shall believe you. Deny them, Dorian, deny them! Can’t you see what I
Victor came in softly with a cup of tea, and a pile of letters, on a
woodwork creaked and seemed to cry out as if in pain. He stopped
cliff of almost complete verticality; and as the investigators climbed
book back in dranver_.
of going.  I have a great deal to talk to you about, of demmed
way! If it were I who was to be always young, and the picture that was
silver against it. From some chimney opposite a thin wreath of smoke
everything ... in that stone ... it must o' come in that stone ...
ALGERNON.
Yes, but it usually chronicles the things that have never happened, and
past all coherence, and even isolated replies were almost too much for
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Striking a bell_.]  But it is worth while my
ends with the veil of the temple being rent, and the darkness coming over
they was a kind o' mushy saound, like a elephant puffin' an' treadin',
had covered the walls and pillars, and from some undetermined point
welcome in contrast, and I marvelled no more at the frightened whispers
face. It cannot be concealed. People talk sometimes of secret vices.
lightning strike the furrow in the front yard, and when the storm was
ath came, but his wife must not
none; only the fetid greenish-yellow ichor which trickled along the
have come and departed. It is not because of anything that can be seen
incarnate: the body instinct with spirit.  For this reason there is no
and Zenas were both there, in part, though the vestiges were mainly
LORD AUGUSTUS.  You’re getting annoying, dear-boy; you’re getting demmed
He is never more present in my work than when no image of him is there.
the door. Right in front of him he saw, in the wan moonlight, an old man
notice of him at all till they were just going away.  Then one of them
usual, and observed that he had begun to look worried. The rest of his
LORD AUGUSTUS.  No, really! really!
broad day-light, so that every one can see me.”
"It was--well, it was mostly a kind of force that doesn't belong in our
LORD GORING.  Who is with him to-day?  Mr. Trafford, isn’t it?
performed the office of frescoes in the chill rooms of the northern
up something intangible. "It was awful," he added. "There was no bottom
Hall.  Round the garden ran a very lofty wall, but I never cared to ask
less value than the possession of a good _chef_. And, after all, it is
recommended. I declined. The next night, of course, I arrived at the
coat-of-arms. By the side of the hearse and the coaches walked the
prier_.]  Ah! tu n’as pas voulu me laisser baiser ta bouche, Iokanaan.
for some purpose. Slowly nerving himself, he finished his descent and
thought and emotion were each isolated in its own sphere through some
relating. He called himself "psychically hypersensitive", but the staid
omen. Destiny does not send us heralds. She is too wise or too cruel
To this day there is something queer and unholy about the growths on
DUMBY.  I congratulate you, my dear fellow.  In this world there are only
cile the artistic life with the life of religion, in the deep,
and I know that the work I have done, since I met Dorian Gray, is good
bowed head, and humped back, and long fantastic arms. Had it not been
summer day in London.
Prince, “you have stayed too long here; but you must kiss me on the lips,
never read the mad letter you wrote to him!
error all women commit.  Why can’t you women love us, faults and all?
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _enters_.  _A man of forty_, _but looking somewhat
ALGERNON.
with their shimmering blue lining, that hung in front of the three tall
Music strikes up in ball-room.]
Early in August the half-expected outcome developed, and in the small
Lane, you’re a perfect pessimist.
red glare and the muffled tom-toms. There are vocal qualities peculiar
must be horrors of the mind alone, for in some way the second of April
face of the fainting man, and all stood trembling and nearly hypnotized
I don’t care twopence about social possibilities.
This waiting is horrible.  He should be here.  Why is he not here, to
The Prince and Princess were leading the dance.  They danced so
outside his window, but it was so long since he had heard a bird sing in
_Gazette_, but that dignitary did no more than write a humorous article
bending over the corn, or the grape gatherers threading through the
both because of his peculiar interest in the Whateley matter, and
of life. I don’t know what I expected, but I went out and wandered
race of beings from another dimension. He would shout that the world
receiving access to the Latin copy he at once began to collate the two
altar older than the Indians. These were not haunted woods, and their
elder mystery. It was morning when I saw it, but shadow lurked always
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  That is a hard saying, Gertrude!
Personally I cannot understand how anybody manages to exist in the
Merriman, order the dog-cart at once. Mr.
polis, and clambered slipperily up over titan oozy blocks which
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What explanation have you to give me for the
my veins, and become mine.”
[_Enter_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  _He has the letter in his hand_, _and is
Chaque jour je lui donne à manger.  Il me remercie toujours.
trunk or feeler with purple annular markings, and with many evidences
hues of the sunlight. Even the long, dark woodland climb beyond seemed
magnificent ceremony, and the bride and bridegroom walked hand in hand
Opinions were divided as to notifying the Massachusetts State Police,
sense, and was for that very rea
stooped to kiss the leper on the cheek.  I have never said one single
matters rest, particularly as he heard that among the guests was the
solid plank door. It was a window in the rear of the east gable end,
suspected the compiler of having asked leading questions, or of having
There came a knock at the door, and the butler entered with a laden
able to disappear to London quite so frequently as your wicked custom
are a mere girl, you would be lost.  You haven’t got the kind of brains
u
me in halting English that Gustaf Johansen was no more.
enough I know, and English society is all wrong. That is the reason why
politics.”
farmhouse.
their monstrous stone city again to the sun and air.
of a manifestation to expect, but he did not add to the fright of the
sighed Hallward. “That is something.”
dreadfully expensive.  I know I am.  I hope you will be more reasonable
family lately, which perhaps accounts for the lack of triviality your
Ah, Dorian, how happy you are! What an exquisite life you have had! You
This is no place for you. Besides, Mr. Worthing has not quite finished
actual life.  It is said that all martyrdoms seemed mean to the looker
to a
*       *       *       *       *
was terrible enough, but those two crumbling objects were beyond all
possess that element of strangeness that is so essential to romance, he
others. Even when her expression changed he did nothing. But when the
them when I see you. Sin is a thing that writes itself across a man’s
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thanks.  Isn’t that Miss Chiltern?  I should like so much
Men need it so sadly.
seen that colour before, and feared to think what it might mean. He
noses against the foetor they were uncovering. It was not so long a
LE PAGE D’HÉRODIAS.  Vous la regardez toujours.  Vous la regardez trop.
LADY CHILTERN.  There must be some mistake.  That scheme could never have
“Quite ready, James,” she answered, keeping her eyes on her work. For
into restless beauty the swaying gold of the one, and make the other toss
LORD WINDERMERE.  I don’t trust you.  I _will_ tell my wife.  It’s better
you?  But then Robert was a genius, and you have a noble,
you are not on your pedestal you are not interesting.'  How remote was
Eh bien! je la baiserai maintenant.  Je la mordrai avec mes dents comme
serious men to do in cases of wild gossip, for
together in the corner.]
frightened group that remained in the road; and as they climbed they
and reads it_.]  Yes; that will do.  [_Rings bell_.]  And now the
Miskatonic, though those sons seldom return to the moldering gambrel
undeniable significance to the various turns of events so carefully
GWENDOLEN.
things that he had required for his dreadful work. He began to wonder
“My father was a scoundrel then!” cried the lad, clenching his fists.
[Draws back.] A moment! May I ask if you are engaged to be married to
buzzing and crawling. Most of the creatures seemed not quite usual in
remain in open pasturage. About 2 in the morning a frightful stench and
horrid old Jew came round to the box after the performance was over and
was not quite dead, but twitched silently and spasmodically while its
of its black suggestion. He could not recall having seen the original
swore that they swayed also when there was no wind; but even the
cowards.  They outrage every law of the world, and are afraid of the
“Don’t touch me. Finish what you have to say.”
a sharp cry when he saw her eyes wander toward the notes he had taken.
[Very politely, rising.] I am afraid you must be under some
Oh, no! I can’t bear looking at things. It is so silly.
"More space, Willy, more space soon. Yew grows--an' _that_ grows
of blood would be wrought, and murder walk abroad with silent feet.
Armitage (A. M. Miskatonic, Ph. D. Princeton, Litt. D. Johns Hopkins)
[Picture: Decorative graphic of children]
surcoat, and gilt-edged ruff and wristbands, stood Sir Anthony Sherard,
when they grow older they know it. But I don’t want money. It is only
refused you? I know it is a way she has. She is always refusing people.
JACK.
ckingly frightful. Behind the figure was a vague suggestion of a
thing was not to realize the situation. The friend who had painted the
credible Witnesses now living.
"'When a golden girl can win
dreadful people you associate with. Don’t shrug your shoulders like
Of course the sinner must repent.  But why?  Simply because otherwise he
MISS PRISM.
sense of dread expectancy, the darkness, the steepness of the narrow
olboy or a girl. It was absurd to be
which was too late. No doubt it is still down the well--I know there
IOKANAAN.  Où est celle qui s’est abandonnée aux capitaines des
women we marry—that is quite true—but you don’t imagine I would ever—oh,
love, no one else to love me.  Perhaps if God had sent us children she
I really don’t see anything romantic in proposing. It is very romantic
probable matricide, felt a wave of fright as tangible as a draft of the
his domestic duties he becomes painfully effeminate, does he not? And I
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma.
I sought him out the next morning, having heard that he lived alone in
me, I don't know where I should stop: for, indeed, God made the world
tears the books out.] M. Generals . . . Mallam, Maxbohm, Magley, what
shouldn't have been there; an angle which was acute, but behaved as
for years.
down from very old times. Dunwich is indeed ridiculously old--older by
horrid of me, as he has sent me my portrait in the most wonderful
of the sensitive and called imperiously to the faithful to come on a
“Narborough wasn’t perfect,” cried the old lady.
him, and which all too clearly had shared the nameless fate of young
by Dunwich and its denizens. The strangeness did not reside in what he
thickly covered with coarse black fur, and from the abdomen a score of
and Johansen swears he was swallowed up by an angle of masonry which
with some subtlety to draw him out.
his hands are like withered leaves.”
the dry tips of the lingering hedge-mustard, grey and blighted, and
CECILY.
comparatively young as he is.
HÉRODE.  Je suis sûr qu’il va arriver un malheur.
tomberont sur la terre comme les figues vertes tombent d’un figuier, et
two pellets on him, with that accuracy of aim which can only be attained
like? I don’t know him.”
[Rising.] Well, that is no reason why you should eat them all in that
saying beautiful things himself, but of making other people say beautiful
their dead bodies had told their secrets in dreams to the first man,
and general illiteracy of the strange being who wrote it. Almost the
you?
Not a man breathed for several seconds. Then a cloud of darker depth
if she died as Juliet, she came to life as Imogen.”
CECIL GRAHAM.  Hallo, Dumby!  I thought you were asleep.
have passed away from the scarlet sensitive mouth, and he might show to
away came the frantic barking of dogs.
“I recognize him in a flash,” exclaimed the duchess.
which overlooked the swath at a point considerably ahead of where the
Why, even her children are not allowed to live with her. Then there are
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Bowing_.]  Every one is dying to know the
Morning came wanly, and the night-sounds ceased.
servants were at Selby Royal. His valet had gone to bed.... Paris! Yes.
back in that odd way that used to make his friends laugh at him at
the Woman’s Liberal Association.  You take far too much interest in the
her with the coroner,
Your consent!
am I to do?  Be my friend now.
in the sitting-room, did not dare to move until the last echoes died
the way the great, overgrown mourning-cloak butterflies behaved in
nowadays.  It is a great bore.  It makes society so obvious.
some months past she had felt ill at ease when she was alone with this
GWENDOLEN.
he had no fruit or flowers to bring to the market, he suffered a good
that all the mystery was much more recent than I had dreamed. It was
LORD AUGUSTUS.  And my reward?
LORD GORING.  And thunderingly well they do it.
table close to the open window. It was an exquisite day. The warm air
he roared all day about the garden, and blew the chimney-pots down.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Sinking on the sofa_.]  Safe!  Oh! I am so glad of
and his honesty. I took leave of him amicably, and wish him all the
beaucoup à se regarder dans la rivière.  Je lui ai fait des reproches
Thaddeus and the livestock. But the terrible thing about the horror was
into them has been a mistake—I discovered that last night.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Sitting down_.]  Gertrude, truth is a very
really in the soul, as Giordano Bruno thought? The separation of spirit
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Pointing at him with outstretched finger_.]  Look at
I am engaged to be married to Gwendolen, Lady Bracknell!
In Auckland I learned that Johansen had returned _with yellow hair
The trees budded prematurely around Nahum's, and at night they swayed
connect with the proper flora of the region. No sane wholesome colours
upon him one day and departed pale and puzzled, he was fully six and
You silly boy! Of course. Why, we have been engaged for the last three
“And found it, Mr. Gray?”
would know who he was. He wanted to escape from himself.
characters along the base were equally baffling; and no member present,
Suddenly she felt the need to speak. The wordy silence troubled her.
was a dreadful orchestra, presided over by a young Hebrew who sat at a
occur. They are hardly considered the thing.
e world whenever another earthquake shall heave
was quite right in saying you were a Bunburyist. You are one of the
Times_ at all the clubs in St. James’s Street; there are so many sons who
any kind on that broad expanse, but only a fine grey dust or ash which
out momentarily. At this there was a general cry; muffled with awe,
of Republican simplicity. Perhaps I should mention that Virginia is very
affinity between the chemical atoms that shaped themselves into form
He shuddered, and for a moment he regretted that he had not told Basil
himself, the celebrated frame-maker of South Audley Street, came in
“It is a malady.”
burns, he said, an' is jest a cloud of colour like that light out thar
you kindly inform me who I am?
talker.
ALGERNON.
is indeed profound and authentic.
Cecily! What on earth do you mean? What do you mean, Algy, by Cecily! I
for some time lent the image to Professor Webb, but at the latter's
t once conceded from the specimens scattered about that his genius
and brittle?
seemed quite to satisfy.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I am afraid I am not fond of girl friends.
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_To_ LORD WINDERMERE.]  My dear boy, you must not dream
, I found that little was known of
spoiled.  Her father will beat her if she does not bring home some money,
however. They paint in order to try and look young. Our grandmothers
invulnerability. Ammi had difficulty in recalling all these things, but
report that the works are hardly begun, and as for the money already
emitted, and all trace of the thing vanished with the puncturing.
reached the top landing. And he wiped his shiny forehead.
WENDOLEN.
at,
waits and dreams in the deep, and decay spreads over the tottering
cultivated. For these there is hope. They are the elect to whom
you threaten him or me?  Leave my house.  You are unfit to enter it.
cows. Certain areas or sometimes the whole body would be uncannily
I am never going to speak to you again.
And yet, as the members severally shook their heads and confessed
the brain.  However, I think anything is better than high intellectual
Do not ask me, Mr. Worthing.
anguish, and that those who touched his garments or his hands forgot
life at all.  To him what is dumb is dead.  But to Christ it was not so.
by Dunwich and its denizens.
IOKANAAN.  Jamais!
waiting even five minutes for anybody. It always makes me rather cross.
searching gaze that he turned on Dorian.
Their consciousness. They bend the forest and crush the city, yet
SALOMÉ.  Je suis Salomé, fille d’Hérodias, princesse de Judée.
travelling; and the sweetness of the New York accent as compared to the
HÉRODIAS.  Je ne crois pas aux présages.  Il parle comme un homme ivre.
"You mean the Garden of Death," she whispered.
so.  I forbid you!
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  God grant it!  God grant it!  [_Buries his face in
His hand shook, and the candle fell from its socket on the floor and
their beautiful houses, while the beggars were sitting at the gates.  He
Untruthful! My nephew Algernon? Impossible! He is an Oxonian.
what he sought was no longer there. It had come to meet him,
newspaper readers may still recall. It was the publicity attending this
which--shrieked aloud at what sprawled before them among disordered
h maker
mankind's soul.
at which, I am sorry to say, the twins burst into shouts of laughter.
he sank into a delicious slumber.
surprised that the world says that you are extremely wicked.”
woman has got a great deal of money out of somebody, for it seems that
_The Library in Lord Goring’s house_.  _An Adam room_.  _On the right is
to treat them, that is to say, as modes of imperfection.
between the ring of bodies and the ring of fire."][1]
form. It was no longer _shining_ out; it was _pouring_ out; and as the
treated with such coarse brutality, used to quote in her humiliation and
having got out hastily and given the driver the extra fare he had
from Webster, or Ford, or Cyril Tourneur.
[_They pass into the ball-room_, _and_ LADY WINDERMERE _and_ LORD
murder in the air. Some red star had come too close to the earth....
press cuttings, in Professor Angell's most recent hand; and made no
things of which I was convicted that I had done, and a still greater
smell of nitric acid in the room. But the thing that had been sitting
not describe the _kind_ and _rate_ of shrinkage and disintegration that
It’s delightful to watch them.
t help it—and
world would induce me to live under the same roof as Lord Windermere.
[_When she reaches the door she looks back for a moment at_ LADY
truggled out through the fog, and Hallward looked at his
PLYMDALE.]
Lavinny's a-callin' its father's name on the top o' Sentinel Hill!_"
nourries par les prêtres.  Elle est plus rouge que les pieds de celui qui
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  J’aime beaucoup l’or.
her own.] I never travel without my diary. One should always have
D'Iberville, before La Salle, before the Indians, and before even the
Campbell took a chair by the table, and Dorian sat opposite to him. The
LADY BRACKNELL.
and I don’t think I shall go anywhere afterwards.  Robert, of course,
the stars were right. Then came out of the earth the black spirits of
that had not held the knife. Confess? Did it mean that he was to
LADY WINDERMERE.  Did he say anything?
“Have you seen her to-day?” asked Lord Henry.
GWENDOLEN.
It was then that he began that rambling tale which suddenly played upon
TO
I am afraid that the news I have to give you will not altogether please
swift penalty along with it. There was purification in punishment. Not
psed the window, and a second later he felt himself brushed as if
fact, I found it myself,
I couldn't do any more sunsets, then you took the emerald-green and the
Mr. Worthing went over in the direction of the Rectory some time ago.
would have fainted or gone mad, but Ammi walked conscious through that
on their heads in the water.
LADY MARKBY.  He has had a very interesting and brilliant career.  And he
tool-shed abandoned when the house was finally repaired, and like the
CECILY.
only a fancy of mine. This unfortunate accident has upset me.
t there was no motive power in
had not his home lain outside the bounds of the future lake. Relief
“What a place to find one’s divinity in!” said Lord Henry.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Indignantly_.]  If you listen attentively! . . .
walked boldly toward the kitchen. But he did not complete the walk,
te youth and beauty. Lying on the floor was a dead man, in
my own mental attitude towards life as a whole; and I feel that not to be
The lad was touched. He went towards her, and stooping down, he kissed
gaze was the next moment called swiftly to earth by the crackling in
was of course my soul in its ultimate essence that I had reached.  In
whilst an architect had gone mad and a sculptor had lapsed suddenly
malheurs dans le pays.
the dog's rending paws still rested watchfully, had the leathery,
about them.  That side of life is over for me, very fortunately, I dare
HÉRODE.  Taisez-vous.  Je vous dis que vous êtes stérile.
his eyes, Lord Henry rushed through the flapping palms to find Dorian
brass and a lip of scorn that one can get through the day at all.  And he
away. How little he had thought, in those dead days, of all that was in
the medium of
leeringly in those crazily elusive angles of carven rock where a second
I am in love with Gwendolen. I have come up to town expressly to
But the Roman Candle and the Bengal Light were quite indignant, and kept
people live for love and admiration.  But it is by love and admiration
to me. But I do not think my life will be long. As my uncle went, as
des choses qui se passent à une distance immense.  César lui-même en
prendre comme épouse l’épouse de mon frère.  Peut-être a-t-il raison.  En
forth the prophecy of their return.
on the sensual mouth. The sodden eyes had kept something of the
dress-circle. Women went about with oranges and ginger-beer, and there
probably, indeed, been used for that purpose before now—but it could
For over two weeks Ammi saw nothing of Nahum; and then, worried about
to the ten-acre pasture and stumbled home by the north road and the
in the Frye yard, the wounded Seth Bishop cattle, and the enorm
LORD GORING.  That is just what I should like to marry.  A thoroughly
round with a start. It was one of the women who had been drinking at
secrets will lie safe forever under watery fathoms. But even then I do
whom the romantic and the scientific temperaments were so strangely
and goggle eyes blinked at her from the carven chimneypiece, and
through centuries. The name "blasted heath" seemed to me very odd
poor Curtis Whateley began to knit back into a sort of continuity; so
by number, I should have attempted some corroboration and personal
prevent the lower classes making painful observations through the windows
is pain.
names, Ernest John. [Puts book very quietly down and speaks quite
attention. I myself used to receive many bouquets at one time. That was
German when he is leaving for town.
extraordinary that sometimes it has made me almost afraid.  I remember
y
the ship was befouled by an acrid and blinding green cloud, and then
The duchess sighed. “I am searching for peace,” she said, “and if I
would be a greying and turning brittle like that which beset the hogs.
beautiful house?  I hear your pictures are charming.  Poor Baron
DUMBY.  The youth of the present day are quite monstrous.  They have
By September all the vegetation was fast crumbling to a greyish
husbands away from us, but they always come back, slightly damaged, of
“Each of us has heaven and hell in him, Basil,” cried Dorian with a
singing as she ran upstairs. Her little feet pattered overhead.
conference disbanded without having developed a definite plan, but all
solid plank door. It was a window in the rear of the east gable end,
secretive of him! He grows more interesting hourly. I am not sure,
England's traditional "salt of the earth"--gave an almost completely
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Thanks.
extraction.  He flew so high that the people were afraid that he would
All day long they played, and in the evening they came to the Giant to
nion boarded the yacht and tried
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.  Ne te réjouis point, terre de Palestine, parce que
c variants of some diseased,
The veterinary shivered, and walked to the front door to drop the heavy
She looked at him, smiling. “How long Mr. Gray is!” she said. “Let us
friend Bunbury is very ill again. [Exchanges glances with Jack.] They
to his room, thinking of his vain oath and baffled purpose. There he
Found!
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Then she’s all right, dear boy.  But why didn’t you tell
to know where the picture was being taken to. There was something sly
imagining this but actually achieving it, so that at the present moment
ir intense actuality of impression, than all the gracious
bobbing lanterns. The muffled beat of tom-toms was now faintly audible
no joke tracking down something as big as a house that one could not
stone--whose _geometry_, he oddly said, was _all wrong_--and hear
throw, whether the stake be power or pleasure, I care not—there is no
the glass in her lace and diamonds; of the four housemaids, who had gone
room above. What presence had his cry and entry started up? Halted by
n months, he began to
now, that ye can hardly see an' can't tell what it is. Nahum thought it
spent his life trying to realize in the nineteenth century all the
the park, or strolled down Piccadilly, I used to look at every one who
Acropolis, and clambered slipperily up over titan oozy blocks which
representing a monster, of a form which only a diseased fancy could
not see it. Why should he watch the hideous corruption of his soul? He
CHASUBLE.
rds mornin' Cha'ncey
Dites-lui de se lever de la couche de son impudicité, de sa couche
cèdres du Liban qui donnent de l’ombre aux lions et aux voleurs qui
inexorable trail. Whatever the horror was, it could scale a sheer stony
house and family. Throughout that afternoon they rode around Dunwich,
civilised life should be.
the six men who never reached the ship, he thinks two perished of pure
I can’t understand how you are here at all. Uncle Jack won’t be back
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Smiling_.]  Ah! you are beginning to reform me.  It
his arm.
_Fifth Edition_                               _May_                _1912_
made no written record of its mouthings, but asserts confidently that
and producing a gold-latten matchbox, “the only way a woman can ever
policeman going his rounds and flashing the long beam of his lantern on
The speaker panted into silence, but another took up his message.
Thanks, I’ve turned round already.
when I was leaving your house to-night.  I am so sorry.  [_Takes fan from
say it is.
whole scene is no more than the slaying of an ox is to the butcher, or
such size seen before, and they held strange colours that could not
the wind.
delightful you looked. And, after all, you said something to me the day
“It is about yourself,” answered Hallward in his grave deep voice, “and
from another.
LADY WINDERMERE.  Far more than that.  [_Rises and goes to him_.]  I will
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Shrugging her shoulders_.]  Oh! don’t use big words.
"Well, I quite admit it," said the Ghost, petulantly, "but it was a
instinct about life.  I have got it.  Tuppy hasn’t.  Experience is the
Vane.
to take him.  And I dare say I’ll make him an admirable wife, as wives
deliberate bloodthirstiness and repulsiveness. It was a faith of which
really in the soul, as Giordano Bruno thought?
“I am glad you appreciate my work at last, Dorian,” said the painter
himself known this curious fancy. In the seventh chapter he tells how,
wholesome beasts and birds of the woods. It was nightmare itself, and
dripping with green ooze and sinister with latent horror. Hieroglyphics
JACK.
était un encensoir qui répandait d’étranges parfums, et quand je te
Dieu.  Eh bien, tu l’as vu, ton Dieu, Iokanaan, mais moi, moi . . . tu ne
“I am not the same, Harry.”
red stain larger than it had been? It seemed to have crept like a
to take three officers to the Gardner farm, together with the coroner,
LORD WINDERMERE.  Where is she?
The cloak-room at Victoria Station?
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Hem!  Well, look here, dear old fellow.
eyes. “It is too late, Basil,” he faltered.
had to speak were unreal, were not my words, were not what I wanted to
and the consciousness that amongst his audience there was one whose
SECOND ACT
woman’s.  Women think that they are making ideals of men.  What they are
they threw down flowers on her from the balconies.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Not since Berlin, Vicomte.  Five years ago!
has just died is better off than I am. I have no terror of death. It is
seen together at the opera and wherever good music was going on. For
s quite unconscious of the effect she was producing. Her love was
“Come back! come back!” screamed the Rocket, “I have a great deal to say
really must have a good stare at her.
rs. Erlynne coming.  But Lady Windermere has that uncommon
In the evening I asked old people in Arkham about the blasted heath,
position of everything else seemed fantasmally variable.
JACK.
me pray that, if I do not survive this manuscript, my executors may put
shown by the meteor fragment in the college spectroscope, and like the
Don’t talk about horrid subjects. If one doesn’t talk about a thing, it
rules, and does not spring from within through some spirit informing it.
and shouted of what he had found. The rest followed him, and looked
has been thirty-five ever since she arrived at the age of forty, which
goes on proposing.  Of course, as you didn’t turn up this morning, I very
premise that there was no wind at that hour of the evening. One did
LORD GORING.  Must you really?  [_Kisses her_.]
went over to the table and wrote a passionate letter to the girl he had
time their eery cries in unison with the sufferer's struggling breath.
The day had been warm and sunny; and, in the cool of the evening, the
and wonders at the cluster of rotting gambrel roofs bespeaking an
of ruthlessness brought against his party during the proceedings of the
Lightning flashed aloft, and the wondering crowd looked in vain for
not dare look back till they were far away on the high ground.
rest.”
the _Dæmonolatreia_ of Remigius, in which he seemed hopeful of finding
They were a little beyond the Seth Bishop place, but bent trees and
curiously at the immense carved door with the now familiar squid-dragon
of Dr. Richard Strauss was first produced in Dresden in 1905; an
different, but you must not like me less. I am changed, but you must
in archeology. On the contrary, his wish for enlightenment was prompted
no identifying features whatsoever; and at the end of the tests the
and strained his vision to the utmost. He saw that Rice, from the
JACK.
keerful ter see whar the big matted-daown swath led arter it leff the
whiter than the snow upon the mountain.
propose to me?
Then he put on his hat, and ran up to the Professor’s house with the rose
desire to become in harmony.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_With a bitter note of triumph in her voice_.]  I mean
CECIL GRAHAM.  Arthur!
image of the 'Sorrow that abideth for ever' it is incarnate.  It could
may say, is no mean authority upon Art,--having had the privilege of
PROSECUTED
your palate. Nothing has been hidden from you. And it has all been to
afraid not.  In fact, she is like most artists; she is all style, without
thanked him, wondered why he refused to accept any money
LORD GORING.  If you wish it, Mrs. Cheveley!
nature that is not illumined by the imagination.  He sees all the lovely
the stench-filled reading-room till the examiner came and the prostrate
“Well, eighteen, then. And I saw you with him the other night at the
Yes, but men often propose for practice. I know my brother Gerald does.
from? From her little head to her little feet, she is absolutely and
mentally, and no one was surprised when the news of Mrs. Gardner's
to the editor of a paper in South America, where a fanatic deduces
meadows.
Of all this Guildenstern and Rosencrantz realise nothing.  They bow and
the gold he was certain to find, about the wonderful heiress whose life
pale-yellow wine from a delicate, gold-beaded bubble of Venetian glass
Prism a female of repellent aspect, remotely connected with education?
was right about that ... evil water ... Zenas never come back from the
immediately, so Ammi had to wait trembling while pail after pail of
fter leaf of the fine gold the Swallow picked off, till the Happy
_1.
selects is absolutely delightful to me. Dorian Gray falls in love with
lenses with Armitage's aid. When he did so his cry was less restrained
He showed that the spirit alone was of value.  He took a keen pleasure in
vous voulez qu’on vous apporte dans un bassin d’argent, ma chère et belle
ancient farmhouse, and the weirdness of the whole region and its hill
“I have no doubt it was not an accident, Dorian, though it must be put
speculation.
charity concerts, and the like that are showered on fashionable young
the strange cult-members who had lingered in the old sea taverns.
There was the madness of pride in every word he uttered. He stamped his
an odd reluctance about approaching, and did so at last only because
gazing intently at his picture. “It is quite true, I never talk when I
LADY BRACKNELL.
Fairfax. The gentleman whose arm is at present round your waist is my
Devereux, and made all the men frantic by running away with a penniless
who had _dreamed_ not only the figure and exact hieroglyphics of the
César.
eating his soul away. From time to time he seemed to see the eyes of
changed color, as if from some circulatory cause normal to the
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Rises indignantly_.]  If you will allow me, I
[Advancing to table and helping himself.] And very good bread and
every stroke of the pen, and the moral law all over the page.  Wonder
tmare itself, and
blank, and Ammi, when he had reached home and heard the tale, could
“Quite so,” answered the young lord. “It is the problem of slavery, and
hand-bag of black leather in his hand.]
King’s musicians passing by.  It was really only a little linnet singing
LE PREMIER SOLDAT.  Princesse, le jeune capitaine vient de se tuer.
then!  Living at the mercy of a woman who has neither mercy nor pity in
o tears and buries her face in her hands_.]
He was almost convulsed with fright as he stumbled into the kitchen;
assertion of the imagination as the basis of all spiritual and material
feet of lead, while he by monstrous winds was being swept towards the
from the well--in the woodshed behind, and that shaft of unknown and
night. It must be this which keeps the foreigners away, for old Ammi
Why? [Cuts a flower.]
began telephoning the neighbors; thus starting on its rounds the
cherches-tu dans cet immonde palais? . . .
caused you any mental or physical anguish, but I feel bound to point
Windermere is receiving them_.
all this curious artistic idolatry, of which, of course, I have never
through the strange stories and odd dreams he was in the habit of
“But they have not lost their only son,” said the Roman Candle; “no
the true reason why he had wished to hide the picture away. Basil would
their weaknesses, their follies, their imperfections, love them all the
is vocation not volition that determines us, and that one cannot gather
Let us go. Dorian, you will come with me. I am so sorry, Basil, but
thing to fight, and it can't multiply. It can, though, do a lot of
would have liked to have continued the scene on the same emotional
LADY BRACKNELL.
the moment that night and day, for weeks and months, she had dreaded,
before the father could get to the door the boy was gone. There was no
never seen him before; and the Giant felt very sad.
polite good-bye to the captain, and go off at once to the gold-fields.
which was the nearest to him geographically.
the six men who never reached the ship, he thinks two perished of pure
there in that? Some aunts are tall, some aunts are not tall.
LADY BRACKNELL.
“It is very cold here,” he said; “but I will stay with you for one night,
had to stand on the centre platform of Clapham Junction in convict dress,
court of inquiry. Then, driven ahead by curiosity in their captured
erations; and was
ring of fire.
Miss Prism says that all good looks are a snare.
accompany me.
absence some one might gain access to the room, in spite of the
separately as he went. He climbed interminably along the grotesque
DUMBY.  Life would be very dull without them.
the night before. Less worthy of notice was the fact that the mother
floor, crushed it into silver splinters beneath his heel. It was his
also. I worshipped you too much. I am punished for it. You worshipped
lost no time in crowding around him to gaze at the diminutive figure
courage and snapped the switch. One of the three--it is not certain
They reign again.
brown-paper cartridge, who happened to be staying in the same drawer as
road, but the road was very dusty and full of hard stones, and they did
ALGERNON.
wheelbarrow with the money.’
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Starts_, _and looks at the servant with a puzzled
and they wondered how swiftly or how lingeringly a cow or bullock
some siphons of soda-water and large cut-glass tumblers, on a little
On the 14th of February last. Worn out by your entire ignorance of my
about to agree when the noise of splintering wood burst in upon their
Cyclopean architectural background.
perhaps it is just as well that he acted as he did. No one will ever
again," murmured Mrs. Otis, as she kissed the trembling child, and
holiday."
run over the programme I’ve drawn out, if you will kindly come into the
that only generous clothing could ever have enabled it to walk on earth
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Kisses him_.]  It is love, Robert.  Love, and only
over the Stiltons, with whom, indeed, he was distantly connected, his
You would feel that he was lying to you every moment of the day.  You
after all horizontal--and the men wondered how any door in the universe
ere had come to New Orleans police a frantic
some one at White’s who wants immensely to know you—young Lord Poole,
showed that the commonest sinner could do it, that it was the one thing
get you a hat at Ascot."
ownstairs,
landed at the trim wharves in the shadow of the Egeberg.
hues of the sunlight. Even the long, dark woodland climb beyond seemed
preserved in the Museum at Hyde Park; and I studied it long and well,
beset them, and now and then a pile of dank stones or fragments of a
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I would to God that I had been able to tell the
almost entirely lost control. The hero, the wonderful young Parisian in
of being an undeveloped mouth or throat.
and that therefore what one has done in the secret chamber one has some
cela vous fait?  Pourquoi la
material which I had noted in Legrasse's smaller specimen. Geologists,
Lady Plymdale
slowly through time; and how slowly time goes with us who lie in prison I
It seems a very dangerous idea.  It is--all great ideas are dangerous.
and the second is the appearance of a new personality for art also.
taken by something of that colour.
had any hearts at all.”
The chief of these outsiders, and in a short time the focus of interest
world.  I cannot conceive of any other explanation.  I am convinced that
telepathic instant? The Thing of the idols, the green, sticky spawn of
crude wooden bridges always seem of dubious safety. When the road
plâtre où les scorpions ont fait leur nid.  Il est comme un sépulcre
him the most wonderful person in the world. Some day you will meet
Seigneur Dieu.  Faites venir contre elle une multitude d’hommes.  Que le
What has risen may sink, and what has sunk may rise. Loathsomeness
who says that 'sorrow remarries us to God,' could have been so harsh to
course, strong corroboration; but the rationalism of my mind and the
LADY CHILTERN.  Yes.
mentioned by the professor.
brocade in Wardour Street and had to bargain for hours for it.
divide people into good and bad.  People are either charming or tedious.
among which it rises.
in front of the guns? Besides, it is nothing to us. It is rather
“And you know you have been a little silly, Mr.
till morning whence the call came. Then those who had heard it called
with a pail and had come back empty-handed, shrieking and waving his
life wouldn’t be worth living. . . . Well, I am bound to say that I think
wear? would one?
GWENDOLEN.
of ruthlessness brought against his party during the proceedings of the
name of Innocent and into whose torpid ve
off their feet. Dogs howled from the distance, green grass and foliage
d earth's fields, and where They still tread them, and why no
Yes: that is what it was like.”
hospital ward without a moment's notice being given to me.  Of all
and he feared the fall of night over that accursed place, but it was
extraordinary influence over me. I was dominated, soul, brain, and
the Canal depends, of course, on the attitude of England, and I am going
force that could bend trees and crush houses when it chose. They shook
that all the farmers, Nahum included, saw it first. The night had been
mongrels, after a careless push from a negro sailor. I did not forget
Merriman: Mr. Frank Dyall.
come on the
however, were far from modern in atmosphere and suggestion; for,
looking up at him with her wonderful eyes. “I am quite satisfied with
with anybody in the world as long as other people are looking on.”
“Be happy,” cried the Nightingale, “be happy; you shall have your red
Curtis Whateley--of the undecayed branch--was holding the telescope
burns, he said, an' is jest a cloud of colour like that light out thar
But the present was no time to mourn, for almost at this instant a
large, black leather hand-bag, with handles to it—an ordinary hand-bag
own house, I can’t well refuse.  You know I would much sooner dance with
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Smiling_.]  Of which you know so little, Lord Goring—
married?
Then, when it was seen that nothing further could be gained from the
Thaddeus being already known, and mentioned that the cause seemed to
white purity of boyhood, and beauty such as old Greek marbles kept for
shelter from the increasing rainfall beneath one of the few undestroyed
guess. Death would be a boon if only it could blot out the memories.
would pass away from his lips and the gold steal from his hair. The
flamelike imagination.  He realised in the entire sphere of human
old ocean, and all the mystery of primal earth.
cult or system of cryptic lore, he besieged his visitor with demands
LADY WINDERMERE.  Is there a Mr. Erlynne—or is he a myth?
of sickness came over him. He felt as if
long pole.
“I should have thought they had got tired of that by this time,” said
[To Gwendolen.] A gross deception has been practised on both of us.
just two subjects on which and through which I desire to express myself:
the two figures in the dim light of his lantern. They darted almost
SCLAVE.  Quelle réponse dois-je donner au tétrarque de la part de la
CECILY.
And the child smiled on the Giant, and said to him, “You let me play once
rather dramatic. London is very rich in curious effects of that kind. A
LANE.
How do you manage it?
Well, I know, of course, how important it is not to keep a business
incessant beating far within the black haunted woods where no dweller
spiritualizing of the senses its highest realization.
at him and nodded in a hesitating manner.
whippoorwills outside adjusted their cries to the altered tempo while
an amber chain. Dorian Gray had been poisoned by a book. There were
*       *       *       *       *
up at the statue: “Dear me! how shabby the Happy Prince looks!” he said.
humans, and the unaccountable deaths of Merwin and Zenas in
here was
never been understood, and that they had remained savage and animal
was the same, for in one feverish kaleidoscopic instant there burst up
assis devant la porte de Capharnaüm, seulement en les touchant.
excellent reputation, and Johansen is described as a sober and
personality fascinates me, whatever mode of expression that personality
together that which I hope may never be pieced together again. I have
burst forth like smoke from its eon-long imprisonment, visibly
LORD GORING.  Lady Chiltern knows nothing of the kind of life to which
(https://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/1/4/5/2/14522/14522-h.zip)
live entirely out of England.
and thanked Heaven that most of the other crops were in the upland lot
country; and surely the very look of the dark realm is enough to stir
was always the result--there
twelve rubies and fifty-two great orients. The ducal hat of Charles the
“Pray, what are you laughing at?” inquired the Rocket; “I am not
me, once. Why, once ... Oh, I can’t bear to think of it! I wish I had
absolutely necessary.  [_Goes L._]  But how shall I do it?  It must be
of that nefandous well. Save for Ammi's dead horse, which they towed
UN TROISIÈME JUIF.  Dieu ne se cache jamais.  Il se montre toujours et
sky, no hearer was ever able to place. A single lightning bolt shot
[Starting.] Miss Prism! Did I hear you mention a Miss Prism?
wonder, for what thoughts must arise upon hearing, after a knowledge
pour me faire de la peine, parce que je vous ai regardée pendant toute la
gas-lamps flickered and became blue, and the leafless trees shook their
through two centuries of Whateleys, and which were fast falling to
blood flowed in his veins. Here was Philip Herbert, described by
recklessly, nobly—and afterwards finding out that it costs too much.  Why
Well, I am not like that young man you told me of when we were down at
that art had a soul, but that man had not. I am afraid, however, he
Johansen's address, I discovered, lay in the Old Town of King Harold
the causes or occasions of great tragedies share in the feelings suitable
Something terrible came to the hills and valleys on that meteor,
To-night a man who loves me offered me his whole life.  I refused it.  It
he recovered himself, and determined to give his celebrated peal of
The strangely puffed insects died about that time, even the bees that
saurians; and terminated in ridgy-veined pads that were neither hooves
apt to do: spring always seeming to one as if the flowers had been in
resemblance of shape to shadow, or of the form mirrored in the crystal to
voiles et m’ôtent mes sandales.
SCENE
Arthur.  There is some one I must see before I leave town—some one who
e world whenever another earthquake shall heave
LORD GORING.  You underrate yourself, Robert.  Believe me, without wealth
beauty will go with it, and then you will suddenly discover that there
bed of pain.
judgment, both on themselves and me.  I need not say I am not talking of
forefinger began to point shakily and impressively.
woods. He could not pass that well from which his horses had run away.
blowing and roaring above it.  “Climb up! little boy,” said the Tree, and
LADY BRACKNELL.
simply asleep.
the fire of St. Elmo or the flames that come down on the apostles'
old ocean, and all the mystery of primal earth.
Norway a certain seaman who saw things is dead. Might not the deeper
What was the unknown island on which six of the _Emma's_ crew had
looks in_.]  I have heard the most shocking things about her.  They say
have believed that he had passed through a tragedy as horrible as any
the real culture of the scholar with all the grace and distinction and
Good afternoon, dear Algernon, I hope you are behaving very well.
who had _dreamed_ not only the figure and exact hieroglyphics of the
LADY PLYMDALE.  You haven’t told me her name yet!  Who is she?
been prejudiced or misinformed, or something.  Then I want you to say a
rther than a bird
ere ill,” he rejoined. “But she seems to me to be simply
jeunes hommes et cent vierges.  Mais il semble que nous ne leur donnons
[Illustration: "HAD ONCE RACED OLD LORD BILTON ON HER PONY"]
light. Charles of England had ridden in stirrups hung with four hundred
The next day he did not leave the house, and, indeed, spent most of the
Harry,” he murmured—“or what enmity is, for that matter. You like every
But I hate tea-cake.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_R.C._]  Your husband has never seen the letter.  I—saw
Oh, I remember.  You’ll think me absurd, but do you know I’ve taken a
malice of its venom, and
LADY WINDERMERE.  Me!
India, and I must do my job first. One minute. That’s all.”
I thought I would ask you to lend me a couple of your men.”
abhorrent and desperate though rather clumsy mode of fighting.
friendship like ours, would it not? Of course you are quite, quite sure
of tall stone pillars with which most of them are crowned.
ALGERNON.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Coldly_.]  Oh, it has been no inconvenience.
CECILY.
"Yes, death. Death must be so beautiful. To lie in the soft brown earth,
Out of Shakespeare's sonnets they draw, to their own hurt it may be, the
HÉRODE.  Il ne peut pas venir, César.  Il est goutteux.  On dit qu’il a
me, abroad perhaps, or in the country away from London, away from public
Lord Henry had not yet come in. He was always late on principle, his
The Selfish Giant.
of some intelligence, and had been second mate of the two-masted
When the three days were over the marriage was celebrated.  It was a
brought him a breakfast from the house he could scarcely dispose of a
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.
trapped by the sinking whilst within his black abyss, or else the world
most sensible conclusions.
country?
Then they melted the statue in a furnace, and the Mayor held a meeting of
into one's cell, and into the cell of one's heart, with such strange
that woke the memory of dead romances, and in musk that troubled the
e good as well as for the evil that one does.  I have
assure you there is no nonsense about the Americans.”
now, and had grown used to the sense of something near him waiting
Dorian started. “It would not interest you, Mr. Hubbard,” he said,
LADY WINDERMERE.  As a triumph for her, I suppose?
once more be ready for Them.
“That is entirely due to me,” broke in Lord Henry. “Isn’t it, Mr.
what a really affectionate mother requires. Do you smoke?
together.  I remember it perfectly now.  She always got the good conduct
he had brooded on for many months of silence. A chance phrase that he
Gertrude!  [_Exit_.]
bien, et ce que nous appelons le bien est le mal.  On ne peut rien
gather, for odd timidity about the deep skyey voids above had crept
well. They had heard the common country talk, it is true; but could not
CECILY.
like the beat of a hammer.
VICOMTE DE NANJAC, Attaché at the French Embassy in London
a curious form of devil-worship, chilled him with its
and all that kind of thing.  I have no ambition to play the part of a
Then, whispered Castro, those first men formed the cult around small
insisted on seeing him for a while, and departed trembling and
YOG-SOTHOTH!..."
felt sure that I was on the track of a very real, very secret, and
hand, stepped Virginia. In a moment they had all rushed up to her. Mrs.
“Who are her people?” grumbled the old gentleman. “Has she got any?”
plete text is used for the score.  The dramatic and literary rights
screamed at each other from behind their locked doors was very
[Illustration: "HE MET WITH A SEVERE FALL"]
lantern, as the night is so dark that I am afraid I might fall into the
brown agate eyes—that it was through certain words of his, musical
or heard or handled, but because of something that is imagined. The
MISS PRISM.
the battled and disabled but heavily armed steam yacht _Alert_ of
Harry,” said the old gentleman, “what brings you out so early? I
suggestive of old and unhallowed cycles of life in which
anthropology in Princeton University, and an explorer of no slight note.
Oh, well! The accounts I have received of Australia and the next world,
men trudged out to the Frye place at the head of the glen. It was
Presently Wilbur raised his head and began speaking in that strange,
local draft board, had hard work finding a quota of young Dunwich men
LADY BASILDON.  I suppose so.  Are you?
shapeless stream of unplaceable colour left the well it seemed to flow
26, 1916, proved highly startling and disquieting. It was written, he
course, strong corroboration; but the rationalism of my mind and the
sack of flour, but little Hans was so tired that he was still in bed.
gave orders I was not at home to any one.  Even my father had a
d not
demande la tête d’Iokanaan dans un bassin d’argent.  Vous avez juré,
to know.”
it here.
actions yesterday.”
Good-bye, Mother; I will have my dinner at five o’clock. Everything is
exit_.]
ALGERNON.
not any real ruins. Only the bricks of the chimney, the stones of the
front yard; but the wise men answered that stones do not shrink. Its
was dark, an' the rain was wipin' aout all tracks abaout as fast as
“Where was it?” asked Hallward, with a slight frown.
air of hushed fright at Osborn's store they knew something hideous
delicately scented chamber, or in the sordid room of the little
pas qu’il ressuscite les morts . . . Ce serait terrible, si les morts
“and my love will be of the company.  If I bring her a red rose she will
They give us, now and then, some of those luxurious sterile emotions
hese people enter as announced_.]
no civilized man ever regrets a pleasure, and no uncivilized man ever
food--but simply in order that nothing should be wasted of what is given
reagents. Water did nothing. Hydrochloric acid was the same. Nitric
by some hateful current of vapour. Strange colours danced before his
The men shuffled about a moment, and then Earl Sawyer spoke softly,
The good ended happily, and the bad unhappily. That is what Fiction
come Lord Henry Wotton with his strange panegyric on youth, his
becoming!
whether it had been dragged by any external forces, Ammi could not
Grosvenor. The Academy is too large and too vulgar. Whenever I have
Wilcox still lived alone in the Fleur-de-Lys Building in Thomas
men clustered round the window Ammi gave a violent start. For this
swan, and between the swan’s wings lay the little Princess herself.  Her
the cattle that so swiftly disappeared. Then they shuddered as they
They reign again.
until one night when he drove past Nahum's house in his sleigh on the
moment I thought of following you there. They gave the address in the
MRS. CHEVELEY.  That depends partly on the weather, partly on the
where she came
stone molding--that is, one would call it climbing if the thing was not
CHASUBLE.
[Illustration: "Oh, oh, great Gawd ... that ... that."]
You need hardly remind me of that, Ernest. I remember only too well
Dorian hesitated for a moment. Then he threw his head back and laughed.
pedestal covered with undecipherable characters. The tips of the wings
be to him what holiness is to some, and conscience to others, and the
inside. It is a very ungentlemanly thing to read a private cigarette
not wonder that the foreigners would not stay, for this was no region
some other name?
and revel and enjoy themselves, and all the earth would flame with a
CECILY.
It does credit to the alertness of Ammi's mind that he puzzled even
ALGERNON.
who are not their husbands.
be a delicacy to any one.  To me it is so much so that at the close of
look upon you as what you are—a worthless, vicious woman.  I have the
one is in love, one always begins by deceiving one’s self, and one
[_Exeunt_ DUCHESS _and_ LADY AGATHA _C._]
exactly fetid nor exactly salty, and Ammi advised his friend to dig
myself to-night. I should like to be somebody else.”
pail and twisted
SALOMÉ
up by the back staircase so as not to be seen. As she was running past
come down to the water’s edge to drink.
suggested a plausible explanation.
rom steady
from Vienna, I shall let you know the result.  It is a chance, just a
which he could possibly have received the weird impressions.
day the picture had been finished. Yes, he remembered it perfectly. He
keep off--nothing was ever still in the night--the walls and windows
SCÈNE
asylums that only a miracle can have stopped the medical fraternity
There was a brief silence, and in that pause the scattered senses of
else would have done, seems to me to show that they have some sense of
almost loathed. His breath quickened.
influence on or off this three-dimensioned earth--was Wilbur Whateley's
explained to me the wonder of youth, and you finished a portrait of me
The nineteenth century dislike of realism is the rage of Caliban seeing
ength to get home, but was so clearly in
heard only of God,' he chose as his brothers.  He sought to become eyes
It all began, old Ammi said, with the meteorite. Before that time there
he vessel at Melbourne, bid a
you, and loved you, will teach her to despise her husband, and she will
“She has no conversation,” he said, “and I am afraid that she is a
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  I suppose so, Mr. Dumby.  It has been a very dull
Bournemouth’s eldest son. He has already copied your neckties, and has
Only two of the prisoners were found sane enough to be hanged, and
He winced at the mention of his grandfather. He had hateful memories of
HÉRODE [_se retournant et voyant Salomé_] Tuez cette femme!
bas-relief and the disjointed jottings, ramblings, and cuttings which I
that well. It was bad enough passing the glowing barn and sheds, and
GWENDOLEN.
round and see you to-morrow, or next day. Make my excuses to Lady
well ... can't git away ... draws ye ... ye know summ'at's comin', but
frequent meetings and night trips to the woods attracted no little
Miskatonic, though those sons seldom return to the moldering gambrel
understand.
connections. I visited New Orleans, talked with Legrasse and others
collegiate sponsoring, and sent reporters to talk with Nahum Gardner
he thought the center lay amid the pathless deserts of Arabia, where
It is tragic how few people ever 'possess their souls' before they die.
ore widely known.
height; on top of which, incongruous in its diminutiveness, rested the
autobiography. We have lost the abstract sense of beauty. Some day I
for. I say nothing about the social mistake, which would have been
LORD AUGUSTUS.  You want to make her out a wicked woman.  She is not!
the hidden cult, save from what my uncle's relentless catechism had let
LORD CAVERSHAM.
attitude to take towards life. We are not sent into the world to air
is quite true about modernity.  It has probably always been true about
last time he dined here.
“They found safety in the desert. I could not do that.”
"Oh, my Gawd, my Gawd!" the voice choked out; "it's a-goin' agin, _an'
stumbled in the course of my daily round, for it was an old number of
s
completely ignorant of what had happened in dream or reality since the
finest Georgian steeple in America. I found him at work in his rooms,
together.
grey and brittle. Even the flowers whose hues had been so strange
enough to make it rise head and shoulders above
HÉRODE.  La lune a l’air très étrange ce soir.  N’est-ce pas que la lune
brother of the name of Ernest, who lives in the Albany, and gets into
wicked. Mrs.
LADY CHILTERN.  Oh! none, Robert.
*       *       *       *       *
sunken once more, for the _Vigilant_ sailed over the spot after the
table and lay cloth. A long pause. Cecily and Gwendolen glare at each
“Why on earth don’t you keep your men back?
arranged, and watched the flashing lights of the little brougham in
had put a stop to whatever monstrous menace had begun its siege of
I was expected to go over his papers with some thoroughness; and for
days he kept his room, and at last made up his mind to give up the point
LORD GORING.  I have nothing more to say.
I will. I feel better already.
anything wrong. On the contrary, you would probably feel that you were
sweet, and austere sense of the word.
vulgar drop-scene staring me in the face. I looked out from behind the
boyhood had been transformed by the workings of the imagination,
astonishment.] Mr. Worthing! I am unmarried!
]  And then I
[Kisses her and rushes down the garden.]
t a subject on which much eloquence is
about religion at all, I feel as if I would like to found an order for
DUMBY.  I am—to myself.
merely for a 'month or twain to feed on honeycomb,' but for all our years
must have employed a cutting bureau, for the number of extracts was
uncomely face. He had never seen any one so marvellous.
with frightened expectancy the ceaseless, half-mental calli
way the whippoorwills followed the change. It was the same for more
reticulated hide of a crocodile or alligator. The back was piebald
such size seen before, and they held strange colours that could not
"Wal, all right, ef ye feel that way abaout it. Maybe Harvard wun't be
sitting at the table with bowed head and outstretched arms. Alan! Alan!
“I don’t know if he will be able to come, Harry. He may have to go to
on long-surviving secret societies and hidden cults, with references
you’re doing.
But how did he do it?  Tell me the whole thing.
l’avais caché dans une caverne elle ne l’aurait pas vu.
rate, Virginia was lost to them; and it was in a state of the deepest
past.”
her bare limbs in waves of purple bubbles, or crawled in red foam over
The building was full of a frightful stench which Dr. Armitage knew
could not understand. She opened her eyes, and saw the wall slowly
Jack? . . . No, there is very little music in the name Jack, if any at
little too modern, perhaps.
sorry to see you disgraced, publicly disgraced. How dare you ask me, of
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes, there is!  Listen!  Oh! that is my husband’s
JACK.
pathos, suggestion, ecstasy, love.  He appeals to the temper of wonder,
you in your library ever since nine o’clock. Finally I took pity on
LORD AUGUSTUS.
mutterings. American officers in the Philippines find certain tribes
wish I knew,” she said at last.
que ma fille danse pendant qu’il crie comme cela.  Je ne veux pas qu’elle
worthy man.
Hill behind my House; wherein there were a Rattling and Rolling,
ALGERNON.
"Oh, oh, great Gawd ... _that ... that_...."
LORD GORING.  Phipps, there is a lady coming to see me this evening on
twilight he hastened home, the screams of the mad woman and the nervous
with you?
the moments the shining of the trees increased, while their restless
was something wrong with the sunlight I saw above that miasmal brink.
taught her. The remote farmhouse had always been feared because of Old
dissecting-room or fetid laboratory you found this man lying on a
acknowledge her genius. Then we must get her out of the Jew’s hands.
wainscoting of olive-stained oak, its cream-coloured frieze and ceiling
He hurried on towards the left, glancing back now and then to see if he
imperfect, who have need of love.  It is when we are wounded by our own
de ma part que je ne lui permets pas de ressusciter les morts.  Changer
terror. We think that we are generous because we credit our neighbour
now, I don’t know whether I regret or not, I made a wish, perhaps you
house. The garden, an old-fashioned one, full of roses. Time of year,
knife and made each delicate fibre of his nature quiver. His eyes
something--it's a blind business, but I know how to make the powder....
“Like the painting of a sorrow,
MABEL CHILTERN.  Oh! . . . How do you do, Lord Caversham?  I hope Lady
and who drowned herself at last in the carp-pond at the end of the
pallet-bed, and hid his face under the clothes. After a time, however,
they should not be confused.  Why, the words
not wonder that the foreigners would not stay, for this was no region
“What has happened?” he asked. “Oh! I remember. Am I safe here, Harry?”
than in his whole life he had ever loathed anything. He glanced wildly
still continued and grew louder. Yes, it was better to let Lord Henry
bewilderment not quite crystallized into fresh terror. Only old Zebulon
healthy nor decent place. The whippoorwills an' fireflies there never
to ask that some expression of their condolence should be conveyed to me.
hundred and twenty-one parrots, made in broidery, and blazoned with the
are that the more insincere the man is, the more purely intellectual
_wrapt in thought_.  _After a little time_ LADY CHILTERN _returns to look
to take three officers to the Gardner farm, together with the coroner,
CECILY.
hardly have guessed the close relationship that existed between them.
sur les montagnes les pieds de celui qui sera le Sauveur du monde.
obscure sort of fever and taken to the home of his family in Waterman
a stone. And still the pale phosphorescense glowed in that detestably
significant to my uncle formed the subject of the second half of his
evil must be something which grandmas had whispered to children
stricken friend, "It come from some place whar things ain't as they is
LE SECOND NAZARÉEN.  Aussi il y a le miracle de la fille de Jaïre.
his guardian’s wife, a pretty professional invalid, who had spent the
you since Berlin!
GWENDOLEN.
great central chimney, too, and fitted the rusty range with a flimsy
LADY BRACKNELL.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Oh! I must shake hands with Lady Markby.  She is
renewed force and coherence as they grew in stark, utter, ultimate
little Swallow began to think, and then he fell asleep.  Thinking always
*       *       *       *       *
about three hours, he arrived at the Doctor’s house, and knocked at the
invisible blasphemy had passed it.
Questioning tactfully, Ammi could get no clear data at all about the
secure places of storage, and diagrams and formulæ were copied with
must remain. By Tuesday he had a definite line of action mapped out,
inexplicable perversity
accepting you.
GWENDOLEN.
“That is quite true, Dorian,” cried Hallward.
il fait très chaud.  Il fait trop chaud.  J’étouffe.  Versez-moi l’eau
down here from London.  From two o'clock till half-past two on that day I
mantel, and infected the very doors and furniture. Each minute saw it
been in the barn. Ammi and his wife consoled the stricken man as best
HÉRODE.  Pas de César?
spills the odorous spices over his tired dusty feet, and for that one
those who _cannot_ believe: the Confraternity of the Faithless, one might
dreams_ upon at least three of the precise words of the formula uttered
in odd corners of the various rooms.
were embroidered the verses of a song beginning “_Madame, je suis tout
of what Legrasse had learned of the cult, of a sensitive young man
rester ici.
"Yes, Mis' Corey," came Sally's tremulous voice over the party wire,
my reputation for you? What is it to me what devil’s work you are up
I now felt gnawing at my vitals that dark terror which will never leave
JACK.
monstrously carven portal. In this fantasy of prismatic distortion it
MRS. CHEVELEY.  How very kind of you, Lady Chiltern!  Believe me, nothing
head drooped. She wiped her eyes with shaking hands. “Sibyl has a
past.
[Shaking her head.] The unfashionable side. I thought there was
“Dorian Gray? Is that his name?” asked Lord Henry, walking across the
doctor, though, was chiefly disturbed by the chattering night birds
My dear fellow, the way you flirt with Gwendolen is perfectly
prophète . . . La princesse Salomé veut le voir.
dark house.
blue-dragon bowl that, filled with sulphur-yellow roses, stood before
wonderful work of art, and a wonderful likeness as well.
Carlington went on his knees to her. Told me so himself. She laughed at
am much obliged for your kindness in coming round.”
their dead bodies had told their secrets in dreams to the first man,
resolved to see. That is why I continued to feel that Wilcox, somehow
MABEL CHILTERN.  I make it a rule never to accept Tommy.  That is why he
xception that
had thought her great.
may I ask, at heart, are you an optimist or a pessimist?  Those seem to
“Remember what I asked you, when we were in the garden this morning.”
London. Are they true? Can they be true? When I first heard them, I
everybody will be there. You can come to my sister’s box. She has got
merely to reform it. As for marriage, of course that would be silly,
regularly, which he never used to do in the good old days, his language
his wing a large drop of water fell on him.  “What a curious thing!” he
now and then Lord Henry looked across at him, wondering at his silence
have a salon.  If one could only teach the English how to talk, and the
personalities I have ever known: a woman, whose sympathy and noble
of the milky opal. He procured from Amsterdam three emeralds of
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Did you know her well?
ascent of so steep a hill by so elderly a man, was responsible for
other is 'The artistic life considered in its relation to conduct.'  The
time. Yet he could not help feeling infinite pity for the painter who
noisome up there, and no sound could be heard from any direction.
had broken.  The fact is that the leaden heart had snapped right in two.
nothing in English was uttered. At first the syllables defied all
are not of our cosmos. This was no fruit of such worlds and suns as
“What is that, Harry?” said the lad listlessly.
for one’s own faults—ah!—there is the sting of life.  It was twenty years
possible disappointment, Mr. Worthing, I think it only fair to tell you
been seen in San Francisco. It is an odd thing, but every one who
cult or system of cryptic lore, he besieged his visitor with demands
work's completion people noticed that the old tool-house, tightly
was no longer the captain of my soul, and did not know it.  I allowed
influence of the physical charms of others. Modern, no less than
floor in a room of that very building, and after that not one of them
simple, permanent, reliable, and of one essence. To him, man was a
LORD GORING.  That will do.  [_Exit_ PHIPPS.]  Lady Chiltern’s
[Sitting down again.] Ernest never mentioned to me that he had a
and some of them will doubtless linger even when half the hollows are
noisome up there, and no sound could be heard from any direction.
acre's extent, clear of trees and tolerably dry. On this now leaped and
look at the world will be always lovely.  I tremble with pleasure when I
“That would be impossible, my dear boy.”
Australian people are taking such notice of just at present.  His father
Lady Windermere
the matter. He see enough, I tell ye, Mis' Corey! This dun't mean no
is kind to an invalid, and leaves the pleasures of London to sit by a
heard the most evil things against him—and from time to time strange
obstacles? It must be only natural disease--yet what disease could
delightful chat with Mrs. Erlynne.  I am so sorry for what I said to you
now, that ye can hardly see an' can't tell what it is. Nahum thought it
covered it, and, holding it in his hands, passed behind the screen.
anything, which you don’t, you would know that I adore you.  Every one in
He stood there for some minutes looking at the dead body.
brittleness.
irst person who ever said to people that they should live
Algernon!
eyes there had been no pity for Arachne; the pomp and peacocks of Hera
there was much breathless talk of new elements, bizarre optical
of the pail.
the stable and the demoniac piping of late whippoorwills in the glen,
ich cannot be mentioned, and what is done in common
know better, they don’t know anything at all.  Hallo, Tuppy!  Hear you’re
doubted that I had a brother? [Seizes hold of Algernon.] Dr.
dark waters of that silver shell we call the moon. It cannot be
ceased along the line.
Les rêveurs sont des malades.  [_Elle frappe le page avec son éventail_.]
and serious; and, turning round, she led them through the opening in the
of the well-sweep was shining now, and presently a policeman dumbly
exactly what one means?  Anybody can say charming things and try to
young fellow—a mere nobody, sir, a subaltern in a foot regiment, or
As they entered they saw Dorian Gray. He was seated at the piano, with
callous.  But behind sorrow there is always sorrow.  Pain, unlike
were—well, just a little older than you seem to be—and not quite so
thy of them.  Besides, Robert has been
waiter. “What is it? Nothing about politics, I hope! They don’t
SCENE
LADY WINDERMERE.  She came here once as _your_ guest.  She must come now
JACK.
a mystery you are!
little boy stretched out his two arms and flung them round the Giant’s
y
moments he loitered upon the doorstep, looking round at the silent
round.] No, the side view is what I want. [Cecily presents her
many contemporary scientifiction stories. You will
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Shaking her head_.]  I am not in a mood to-night for
que les pieds des colombes qui demeurent dans les temples et sont
LADY WINDERMERE.  Certainly!
former experience. The Gardners took to watching at night--watching in
Mr. Ernest’s luggage, sir. I have unpacked it and put it in the room
LADY CHILTERN.  But I am very much interested in politics, Lady Markby.
could not wear over one’s face a mask of glass, nor keep the sulphurous
Mind you come. Or shall we lunch with our little duchess? She says she
very sorry, but the thing is quite out of the question.  I have to think
LADY CHILTERN.  That woman who has just gone out, Mrs. Cheveley, as she
“All right, sir,” answered the man, “you will be there in an hour,” and
who had once called at the farm, and who now politely plied him with
away. Then the stronger-minded folk all left the region, and only the
weakened constitution.
moved, and there was no wind. It must be the sap. Strangeness had come
May Eve of 1915 there were tremors which even the Aylesbury people
what made his young master sleep so late. Finally his bell sounded, and
she didn’t wish to be disturbed.
In May the insects came, and Nahum's place became a nightmare of
skeleton hands being placed on her shoulders as she was dressing for
elves a sufficient answer
LADY WINDERMERE             _Miss Lily Hanbury_.
at regular intervals with the flame-girt monolith as a center hung,
[_He rushes towards her_, _but_ MRS.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Looking up_.]  Yes; I got a telegram from the
not rule it.
when she saw it she flew over to it, and lit upon a spray.
thing you are playing is!
sobs are like the sobs of a child_.]
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Frowning_.]  Ah! yes.  I remember hearing, at the
LADY BRACKNELL.
Yes: there was to be, as Lord Henry had prophesied, a new Hedonism that
told them the words meant. This text, as given, ran something like this:
relentlessly.
attention.
fading away like a mist, and a great black cavern in front of her. A
noiselessly through the underbrush, and the astonished watcher seemed
[_Just as he is going towards the door_ LORD CAVERSHAM _enters from the
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Why do you say that?
occurrence nowadays and that they have to take in extra copies of _The
response to the urgent call.
to affect us at all? Is it that we naturally conceive terror from
Cheveley is one of those very modern women of our time who find a new
_Sees paper knife on bureau_, _and with it cuts cover from book_.
your wealth and career, you would be hounded out of public life, you
lot of beastly competition about. [The sound of an electric bell is
bobbing lanterns. The muffled beat of tom-toms was now faintly audible
LORD GORING.  Sacrificed!
the face of the earth, and the stone rolled to the door of the sepulchre.
My sweet wronged Gwendolen!
personification of absolute perfection.
thing to fight, and it can't multiply. It can, though, do a lot of
e acid solvents
were accompanying the gestures. The weird silhouette on that
now and then Lord Henry looked across at him, wondering at his silence
LORD GORING.  May I ask are you staying in London long?
assembled men of science into a state of tense excitement, and they
me.”
far as she could see, London Society was entirely made up of dowdies and
“You would hardly care for such an arrangement, Basil,” cried Lord
investigation; but as it was, I succeeded in tracing down only a
But the shying of horses near Nahum's house had now become an
he open door the heavy scent of the lilac, or the more delicate
was pale, but absolutely calm. “I have done what you asked me to do,”
frenzy.
said, “but I could not help it. I must go now. Good-bye. Don’t forget
dark, as he now clearly saw was the case with the nearby vegetation.
wait!  My husband may return to me.  [_Sits down on sofa_.]
peculiar stench in the air. About 7 o'clock Luther Brown, the hired boy
some picture of mine had made a great success at the time, at least had
conference disbanded without having developed a definite plan, but all
Second, who sought in his vanity to assume the title of Formosus, and
cabin and attended to a few matters of food for himself and the
And yet amid that tense, godless calm the high bare boughs of all
There are moments, psychologists tell us, when the passion for sin, or
been avidly collecting material for my uncle's research.
shadow and its gloom.
such a good old man--when the reservoir gang gets to work I must write
talk to.  And I am full of interesting information.
what we know. Nahum said somethin' lived in the well that sucks your
what one is going to be no less than what one has been.  Art is a symbol,
Ammi stared blankly at the stars of Cygnus, Deneb twinkling above the
happiness.  So I lived, and so I died.  And now that I am dead they have
“You should have gone away when I asked you,” he muttered.
and it had come in a way which could not be told. Nahum had dug a grave
inister's speech,
"Up thar in the rud beyont the glen, Mis' Corey--they's suthin' ben
There is no good offering a large reward now that the thing is found.
that dreadful vulgar place.
white faces under a broken roof of dripping umbrellas, and a wonderful
monstrous,” he said, at last, “the way people go about nowadays saying
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Standing L.C._]  Very small, very early, and very
“But we have such grave responsibilities,” ventured Mrs. Vandeleur
There is some one I must see before I leave town—some one who
dark and the buggy-lamps faint, but around a farm in the valley which
investigation which set reporters on the track of the Whateleys, and
heartrending.
“I give the truths of to-morrow.”
regarding its focusing and use, they left the telescope with the
r-work,
ed, and shows how wrong Aristotle was when he said in his treatise
he has been paying you compliments. You mustn’t believe a word that he
the same kind themselves.  Men who, each one of them, have worse secrets
ancient woodwork. God! how old the house was! Most of it built before
Let us go into the house. They will hardly venture to come after us
street.
his be if, day and night, shadows of his crime were to peer at him from
goatish features grew crafty. Armitage, half ready to tell him he might
Mother. Prince Charming rules life for us now.” Then she paused. A rose
course if you refuse I will go and do it myself.’
gaze upward to the point at which its idle straying had been suddenly
La Vénus de l’Adriatique
in the Whateley farmhouse. Wilbur was closing all the doors and windows
The fact of my having been the common prisoner of a common gaol I must
besought the professor to remember as best he might the syllables taken
Three days later Nahum burst into Ammi's kitchen in the early morning,
would have taught him that whatever happens to another happens to
CECIL GRAHAM.  A woman who didn’t love me?  Oh, all my life!
spared you that.  Years ago you did a clever, unscrupulous thing; it
“Stop, Jim!” she exclaimed. “You must not say anything against him. I
in your garden, to-day you shall come with me to my garden, which is
he heerd the whippoorwills so laoud in Col' Spring Glen he couldn't
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes.  [_Pause_.]
a shelf-lined room in Arkham.
Robert; tell me it is not.  Why should it be?  What gain would you get?
Ardois-Bonnot hangs a blasphemous _Dream Landscape_ in the Paris spring
altar-stone, were never to hear such syllables again. Instead, they
live the truth.  [_Sighs_, _and goes towards the door_.]  I’ll see you
Oh, before the end of the week I shall have got rid of him. I’ll say he
ethnologists, disregarding the absurd improbability of such a theory,
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.
meant to do anything then and there. It was getting toward sunset, and
the end he could do nothing but drive it into the yard while the men
RN.  I dislike her already.
Never forgive me?
brawled and screamed.
as an ornament of oratory. He hoisted the Union Jack on the pinnacles
sounds most frequently repeated are those rendered by the letters
“But, surely, if one lives merely for one’s self, Harry, one pays a
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Nous ne savons jamais.  Quelquefois il dit des choses
upon his shoulder.
has been listening.
hidden in them.  I could not understand it.  I remember quite well how I
spot on the slope with his finger. Sawyer, as clumsy as most non-users
Why, one may be accepted. One usually is, I believe. Then the
himself. We can forgive a man for making a useful thing as long as he
wife?
and he spread a pair of lovely gauze wings and soared away into the sky.
bow.... There was something terribly enthralling in the exercise of
primarily responsible. But I should like to talk to you about life. The
_Sydney Bulletin_ I have mentioned, for my friend has wide affiliations
“To whom?”
[_He passes from the room_.  LADY CHILTERN _rushes towards him_, _but the
LADY MARKBY.  Ah! no doubt you both have many pleasant reminiscences of
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Politics are my only pleasure.
the chief engineer to keep a sharp watch on him. I would hate to think
room where he had spent so much of his boyhood, he had hung with his
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I have some letters to write, dear.
feverish haste and in bewildering abundance. Of skepticism there was
ACT III. Drawing-Room at the Manor House, Woolton.
front of him. A strange sense of loss came over him. He felt that
that has happened to me, make myself worthy of it.
so myself yesterday afternoon.
book_.]  A second book—private—locked!  [_Tries to open it_, _but fails_.
that the blight is spreading--little by little, perhaps an inch a year.
pinafores.
No one, even those who have the facts concerning the recent horror,
respect for dear Tuppy.
information I wanted.
It was still gruesomely dark when, not much over an hour later, a
mumbled his formless reflections. "It come from that stone--it growed
bold flight, for the reaction had taken something out of his soul.
And a delicate flush of pink came into the leaves of the rose, like the
mutterings. American officers in the Philippines find certain tribes
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Crushing letter in her hand_.]  Yes.
the maimed Bishop cattle, the strange, noisome wreck of the farmhouse,
that colour, and knew that this last faint remnant must still lurk down
escaped even the cutting bureau which had at the time of its issuance
hands, or by the hands of others, that love should come to cure us—else
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Il me semble que c’est terrible.
Ardois-Bonnot hangs a blasphemous _Dream Landscape_ in the Paris spring
d’Euphrate. . . Enfin, que veux-tu, Salomé?  Dis-moi ce que tu désires et
Dorian looked at him and smiled. “What a way for a fashionable painter
ALGERNON.
apparitions, and the development of astral bodies, was of course quite a
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_C._]  Margaret!  I _must_ speak to you.
CECILY.
which faint drumming and red flame were noted on the distant hills.
His morality is all sympathy, just what morality should be.  If the only
consent I absolutely decline to give.
Virginia's eyes grew dim with tears, and she hid her face in her hands.
ice and Morgan, started to walk in the direction
coffee, you fellows? Waiter, bring coffee, and _fine-champagne_, and
ALGERNON.
moment of her death.
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Ne voulez-vous pas vous asseoir, princesse?
and must have guessed without guidance that it was nothing of this or
That is quite a different matter. She is my aunt. [Takes plate from
culture. It isn’t the sort of thing one should talk of in private. I
“Spring has forgotten this garden,” they cried, “so we will live here all
public.  It always makes people think that he beats her when they’re
all directions at random for something they could not tell what. It was
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I hope it is not a little thing, Mrs. Cheveley.  I
to me some afternoon, Lord Henry. It sounds a fascinating theory,” she
until dawn did they finally quiet down. Then they vanished, hurrying
Chamber was empty.
Dorian heaved a sigh of relief as he saw the gardener approaching. The
“People like you—the wilful sunbeams of life—don’t commit crimes,
most sensible conclusions. So, after thoroughly studying the manuscript
academicians, I suddenly became conscious that some one was looking at
one might call it, and the worst of having a romance of any kind is
“Let me see. To-day is Tuesday. Let us fix to-morrow. She plays Juliet
see why you should keep a diary at all.
suffering, tears even, the broken words that come from lips in pain,
boy has fallen off a ladder and hurt himself, and I am going for the
On the nineteenth of October Nahum staggered into Ammi's house with
her with the coroner,
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_After a pause_.]  Do you really require me to
belonging to them.
not?
[Enter Lane.]
HÉRODE.  Je ne l’entends plus moi-même.  Mais je l’ai entendu.  C’était
ear. He
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Rising from R. table_, _where he has been writing
The Remarkable Rocket.
May I ask you then what you would advise me to do? I need hardly say I
Rising Sun Lubricator, we shall have to take his chains from him. It
LORD GORING.  [_Rising_.]  No, Lady Chiltern, I am not a Pessimist.
primary desire was not to reform people, any more than his primary desire
woods that no axe has ever cut. There are dark narrow glens where the
however, a tragedy that possesses artistic elements of beauty crosses
danced like some foul puppet on a stand and grinned through moving
dédaignée.  J’étais une vierge, tu m’as déflorée.  J’étais chaste, tu as
sk her?
made to be worshipped.”
just been telling me about his poor invalid friend Mr. Bunbury whom he
LORD GORING.  [_After a pause_.]  You have heard nothing from Vienna yet,
passed the column he looked
Fizz! Fizz! Fizz! and he went straight up into the air.
it is elsewhere.
Ammi's grip tightened on a heavy stick he had picked up in the attic
upon the latch.
d, I
Academy of Letters.”
circumstances.
deep--but even so, I shall never drink it. I do not think I shall visit
some formula to check the peril he conjured up.
Armitage chose his words carefully.
LE PAGE D’HÉRODIAS.  Il ne faut pas la regarder.  Vous la regardez trop!
ot keep the rain off?” he said; “I
force.  But he doesn’t care.  He’s entrammelled by this woman—fascinated
animals. He went much against his will, for the afternoon was advancing
êtes stérile, ce n’est pas moi.
embrace. Jack and Algernon groan and walk up and down.]
[Miss Prism discovered seated at the table. Cecily is at the back
in the woods and fields, and the few who have ever dared glimpse it in
to pieces for days, and hardly knew what he was about. Screamed at
perhaps you had better go in front. I am afraid it is right at the top
A mountain walked or stumbled. God! What wonder that across the earth
crystals and tasselled in plaited metal threads. He opened it. Inside
brushwork, and the frame was his own design. The idea was monstrous,
LORD GORING.
that I felt I must tell you something about yourself. I thought how
common pattern.
Finally he stammered, in a stifled voice, “Harry, did you say an
terrible than those which had reduced the group of natives to a state
coloured and fantastic fragments as our universe must needs disown.
had gone down-stairs to the great entrance-hall, feeling sure that
e ravenous as he fed them.
ACT I.  _The Octagon Room in Sir Robert Chiltern’s House in Grosvenor
caows, frighted ez he was; an' faound 'em in the upper pasture nigh the
serpentlike suggestion as it winds close to the feet of the domed hills
Mrs. Erlynne.
slopes for myself, and ceased to wonder at anything besides its own
After he had drunk his cup of black coffee, he wiped his lips slowly
"Gawd almighty, the grass an' bushes is a-movin'! It's a-goin'
some day we'd hear a child o' Lavinny's a-callin' its father's name on
once to make preparations for turning himself into a large black dog, an
came convinced of his absolute sincerity, for he
which clasped the croucher's elevated knees. The aspect of the whole
From that time till his rescue on the 12th, the man remembers
genuinely frightened, and threw the thing away at once, so that only
_2.
"That is not dead which can eternal lie,
and careful study, was between seven and eight inches in height, and of
on meteoric iron. When the cooling had grown very considerable, the
Thaddeus being already known, and mentioned that the cause seemed to
Enfin, rentrons.  Vous êtes malade.  On va dire à Rome que vous êtes fou.
other.
thought of each other.
“No, Harry,” answered the artist, giving his hat and coat to the bowing
d by her husband.
mother. I don’t know what my guardians will say. Lord Radley is sure to
living quarters, the newly mended sheds, to a single visit.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  You brute!  You coward!  [_She tries again to unclasp the
upon scarlet mats, slim turbaned Indians blew through long pipes of
corrupt.
past.
LADY WINDERMERE.  But what is it, Duchess?  Why do you talk to me about
fellow-creatures.  I prefer politics.  I think they are more . . .
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_To_ LORD CAVERSHAM.]  I hope an operation will not be
emphasis, was very sad. The subject, a widely known architect with
displayed a freedom from infantile lisping of which many children of
walk about at night, if that is what you mean. It is my only reason for
distressed at times, as he was afraid his flowers would think he had
strokes of cosmic potency. Briden looked back and went mad, laughing
to dinner, rode off down the Ascot road with a groom. He had hardly,
ALGERNON.
words said with musical utterance, that Dorian Gray’s soul had turned
On the nineteenth of October Nahum staggered into Ammi's house with
there seemed to be faint traces of the Widmänstätten figures found
sourirai, peut-être.  Regardez-moi, Narraboth.  Regardez-moi.  Ah! vous
in no conscious form of obligation or regret, the remembrance even of
art, is intellectually and emotionally realised with perfect clearness of
Jew, in the most amazing waistcoat I ever beheld in my life, was
lad’s silence, not understanding what it meant.
aback.] But I am your cousin Cecily. You, I see from your card, are
animals.
ugly, too horrible, too distressing. There is something terribly morbid
_First Edition_         _May_ 1888
DUMBY.  [_With a sigh_.]  Good heavens! how marriage ruins a man!  It’s
make it part of me, to accep
which was too late.
the sculptor and give him the rebuke I thought proper for so boldly
describes a theosophist colony as donning white robes en masse for some
How clearly he recalled those dying words of Nahum's--"can't git
better.  But my experience is that as soon as people are old enough to
and the world's welfare at heart--people shun it without knowing
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Later on.  [_Rises_.]  And now may I walk through your
Argentine scheme is a commonplace Stock Exchange swindle.
but had he been able to connect and reflect upon all the portents
ne m’entendiez pas . . . Salomé, vous connaissez mes paons blancs, mes
tapestry—representing the Triumph of Love_, _from a design by
which grow vocal on warm nights. It is vowed that the birds are
Hallward. “We will come some other night.”
groans.
He jumped up and seized her roughly by the arm. “Show him to me. Which
“But somehow he was never able to look after his flowers at all, for his
épouvantables, mais il est impossible de le comprendre.
is no language for such abysms of shrieking and immemorial lunacy,
me to introduce to you Lord Goring, the idlest man in London.
thick.
connection with these saxifrages.
except to interest yourself in something less dangerous.  The success of
has a cloak of black satin_, _lined with dead rose-leaf silk_.]
spread. Is it fastened to the roots of those trees that claw the air?
body--Thad an' Merwin, Zenas an' Nabby--Nahum was the last--they all
rotting wall intensified by its hint of morbid habitation a depression
loves you, Robert.  Why should she not forgive?
* * * * *
listening, though not for any sound which they could consciously
before.
covering and all, just as it is? I don’t want it to get scratched going
Press, telling what a record-breaking monster the bootleg whisky of
gigantesques.  Ne l’entendez-vous pas?
remember myself once—But it is no matter now.
nocturnal impressions appear here and there, always between March
on you.
“It was a very hot day, and the road was terribly dusty, and before Hans
A house, everything in which has been paid for by fraud.
ALGERNON.
Hallward as he did so. As soon as he got behind him, he seized it and
mongrels, after a careless push from a negro sailor. I did not forget
turned white_ after a perfunctory and inconclusive questioning at
mist go astray.
say.
“‘Oh! they will come to you,’ said the Miller, ‘but you must take more
JACK.
LORD WINDERMERE.  Why?
of Professor Webb.
ne pourraient éteindre ma passion.  J’étais une Princesse, tu m’as
maouth o' the glen--opposite side ter this--an' smelt the same awful
ghted, and for miles
since he had used it first as a play-room when he was a child, and then
who had committed a real murder.”
had intended. With his curious reserved habits, it would be months
to know anything about love.
heat lingered persistently, and Nahum declared it had glowed faintly in
“I hope it is, but I can’t help feeling it. Ah! here is the duchess,
of some fiendish and unclean species of suction. With an associative
was abnormally lifelike, and the more subtly fearful because its source
LADY BRACKNELL.
governesses give warning before their month was up. He accordingly
was a tree quite covered with lovely white blossoms.  Its branches were
you, I don’t believe these rumours at all. At least, I can’t believe
single decent woman in London now who would drive with her in the park?
Arthur, will you?
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Caustically_.]  You can have till dinner-time if it
the manuscript of a work of fiction that I had written during my few
more, while Mrs.
that abandoned well I passed. I hope the water will always be very
not down on my list of eligible young men, although I have the same
peuple prenne des pierres et la lapide . . .
me what to do?
Only two of the prisoners were found sane enough to be hanged, and
leave me!
eddying and foaming in the noisome brine, and as the steam mounted
room which several callers saw, though no one
“Not eight, Harry, please. Half-past six. We must be there before the
here," muttered the medical examiner. No one replied, but the man who
the cattle, only about a quarter could be found and identified. Some of
one, and after some fumbling Ammi threw open the low white door.
m floor ain't through, but is all covered with a kind o'
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I fear I don’t.
that something in a boarded-up farmhouse be destroyed, and fantastic
“I don’t agree with a single word that you have said, and, what is
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  If there is not, the Ambassador will certainly have
JACK.
fulfilled.  We must not be afraid of such a phrase.  Every single work of
watched them, and the great red poppies nodded their heads and beat time.
am to learn them anywhere, and must be filled with joy if my feet are on
LORD GORING.  Nothing.
this
Oh, yes. Dr. Chasuble is a most learned man. He has never written a
out from the grass, but when it saw the notice-board it was so sorry for
TABLEAU
Well, my name is Ernest in town and Jack in the country, and the
terrible, the snarling, half-mad growls and barks continued; always
with shaking hands as fast as he could decipher the cryptic text. He
something in his low languid voice that was absolutely fascinating. His
to the tragic mood: no error more fatal than expecting it of them.  The
complained to Mamie Bishop of being afraid of him.
suffer. Whatever my life is, he had more to do with the making or the
know the origin of the symbols if,
his one visit there. Unseen things not of earth--or at least not of
CHASUBLE.
SALOMÉ.  Vous avez juré, tétrarque.
marriage.
between living one’s own life, fully, entirely, completely—or dragging
trees slope fantastically, and where thin brooklets trickle without
The figure, which was finally passed slowly from man to man for close
masonry which
Yes, sir.
paons.
LORD GORING.
e for you.” He turned away as he
Wilbur's growth was indeed phenomenal, for within three months of his
Nothing!
ld me yet what makes you honour
* * * * *
ous m’avez demandé.
dirait des cavernes noires où demeurent des dragons, des cavernes noires
only proper basis for family life.  Mothers are different.  Mothers are
really nothing for serious men to do in cases of wild gossip, for
in the adjoining room.
authorities in the country and met with no more than the Greenland tale
keep off--nothing was ever still in the night--the walls and windows
s lutes, while
window. Imbedded in the wall was a huge iron ring, and chained to it was
the peril of casual perusal. During a walk through a narrow lane near
a child of four, and was a fluent and incredibly intelligent talker.
artists.
[_Passes her hand nervously over her brow_.]
looks it will have the right cast.
truly an awful moment; with terror in that ancient and accursed house
going on.
always be depended on. Ripeness can be trusted. Young women are green.
choses de son pays.  Il parlait toujours très bas.  Le son de sa voix
morning sky, and from a nocturnal exhalation seen as a phosphorescent
man could gasp or cry out.
expecting you.
Basil! What a horrible way for a man to die!
'pour qui le monde visible existe.'
own intellectual views echoed back to one with all the added music of
of the Carpenter's shop at Nazareth had come a personality infinitely
Oh, but it is not Mr. Ernest Worthing who is my guardian. It is his
while going to prison.
It is not in you, Dorian, to commit a murder.
contained such monstrous threats to the peace and sanity of the world.
round something to read and reminding him that they were to meet at
ALGERNON.
For years, Dorian Gray could not free himself from the influence of
which lay toward the end of their short cut, and among whose fantastic
blameless in pain.  Nor in AEschylus nor Dante, those stern masters of
LADY MARKBY.  Let me introduce you.  [_To_ MRS. CHEVELEY.]  My dear, Sir
must leave that house.
the pale purple of its plumes, so that all the air shall be Arabia for
had been dining, and was wrapped in heavy furs, as the night was cold
in the building, and had manifested since then only alternations of
Well, this is the last time I shall ever do it. [Shakes with Algernon
CECIL GRAHAM.  I am.  [_Moves up to front off fireplace_.]
could hear lots o' folks on the wire a-gaspin'. All to onct Sally she
Did I give you this? It’s very pretty, isn’t it?
all!  Remember to what a point your Puritanism in England has brought
was with a renewed feeling of disappointment that she waved the
Angell was widely known as an authority on ancient inscriptions, and
asked Dorian, looking bored. “If so, I should not like them to be left
incomplete.”
Don’t hesitate about it, Robert.
LORD WINDERMERE.  Allow me!
ill have to be entirely domestic.
for a price; the anguish in the quiet moon-lit garden; the false friend
impulse.  Not width but intensity is the true aim of modern art.  We are
Well, now I am really beginning to feel more regret for the people who
backed them, making quivering disks of light.
Monte Carlo with his father.”
much against it, I admit.  Most women, for instance, nowadays, are rather
calls it 'God's Kingdom,' and finds it in every one.  He compares it to
one.”
me, Alan! Don’t you understand? They will hang me for what I have
Roman letters as best he knew how. But just now of prime significance
said that.
curtain of flame, stood a great granite monolith some eight feet in
“I am covered with fine gold,” said the Prince, “you must take it off,
he said--written in English, evidently in order to safeguard her from
LORD GORING.  To-morrow the Berkshires will prosecute you.  That is what
moon, the pageant of the seasons, the music of daybreak and the silence
Lord Henry laughed. “I don’t desire to change anything in England
news, in fact, had no idea what I was going through. I suffered
afterward--such a scream as could come from no being born of earth, or
secret. The authorities at Tulane University could shed no light upon
ear, in a tragic whisper which must have been perfectly audible to
certain degree, it served his purpose. Still in spite of everything he
Their images with Them.
detested her first husband. When a man marries again, it is because he
ALGERNON.
Basil, too, had his secret. He would ask him and try.
were so young that they did not know what an advantage it is to be in
to the lax morality so common among foreign politicians.’  They will
_Belial_, being heard from under Ground by above a Score of
+------------------------------------+
Merely that I am engaged to be married to Mr. Worthing, mamma.
hills, and because of the unwonted stench and the surging, lapping
meet at the club Lord Brancaster always hides himself behind the money
That is exactly what things were originally made for.
can account for my continued distrust of the artist. The notes in
CHAPTER X.
began the ascent. The elaborate character of the frame had made the
"They didn't git him," he muttered in his heavy bass voice.
[_Airily_.]  Oh, I forget.  At least, it makes no matter.
but had he been able to connect and reflect upon all the portents
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Science can never grapple with the irrational.  That is
But wherever there is a romantic movement in art there somehow, and under
HÉRODE.  Salomé, viens t’asseoir près de moi.  Je te donnerai le trône de
It was the coroner, seated near a window overlooking the yard, who
spectrum vanished in a month, the dust thereafter consisting mainly of
terrible part of the intruding horror, and to glimpse a hellish advance
The lyre had vanquished the reed.  But perhaps the Greeks were mistaken.
preserved in the Museum at Hyde Park; and I studied it long and well,
When she had finished her song the Student got up, and pulled a note-book
real income. In fact, as far as I can make out, the poachers are the
CECILY.
being immeasurably the stronger during the period of the sculptor's
“He has certainly not been paying me compliments.
a rough carter or a grinning ploughman. Well, the fact of having met
phrases--he had no more song, the Greek said.  Apollo had been victor.
alter more. Its gold would wither into grey. Its red and white roses
the frightful symbol, and through it track down the cult to its
LORD GORING.  Good many breezes, father.
words only through a translation of a translation.  It is a delight to me
own first cousin having been married _en secondes no
JACK.
LADY WINDERMERE.  No relations?  [_A pause_.]
MRS. ERLYNNE.  So pleased to meet you, Lady Jedburgh.  [_Sits beside her
consequently they never bother me.
mouthful. All that day he read on, now and then halted maddeningly as
winced. He hated the idea of even touching them.
hour when the Cantervilles were up in town. Besides it was his own suit.
LADY CHILTERN.  I have heard nothing about it.  But I will send for the
stone pillars, and of rushing airy presences to be heard faintly at
great significance, and told the loungers at Osborn's that he thought
would by now be screaming with fright and frenzy. Who knows the end?
LORD GORING.  [_Indignantly_.]  The second to-day?  What conceited ass
unconsciousness and delirium.
“Dorian,” said Lord Henry at last, as the _chaud-froid_ was being
LADY CHILTERN.  Let me see it.
full of Reeds.  Then, when the autumn came they all flew away.
Once more under control, the ship was making good progress when held
extra bar across it.
for me an 'twere in death!" He then retired to a comfortable lead
me.  It could not have come before, nor later.  Had any one told me of
ignoble instruments, as I did.
HOPPER.  Awfully sorry, Duchess.  We went out for a moment and then got
together on a Louis Seize sofa_.  _They are types of exquisite
discovered.
White porcelain feet, if you like.
“Dear me!” said Lady Agatha, “how you men argue!
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh, I assure you it’s all settled.  I don’t regret my
were in her box. She is perfectly charming; and Patti sang divinely.
some time ago, and told me that he did not believe a single word of what
unjust law altered—I forget exactly what it was. Finally he succeeded,
Lord Henry looked serious for some moments.
glow from the lantern he had taken, and of the child himself no trace.
coronation of the Virgin was figured in coloured silks upon the hood.
which the duchess was presiding. Her white hands were moving daintily
deal?
cela.  Je ne veux pas parler de cela.
moment, and a wild feeling of pity came over him. After all, what right
particular part of Hertfordshire, but the number of engagements that go
whom you become intimate, and that it is quite sufficient for you to
simultaneous pictures of an octopus, a dragon, and a human caricature,
In the huge gilt Venetian lantern, spoil of some Doge’s barge, that
of women in London who flirt with their own husbands is perfectly
clean of mud. Curtis was
authorities in the country and met with no more than the Greenland tale
in the building, and had manifested since then only alternations of
did. The plain facts of the case are these. On the morning of the day
was missing from the rim. Then the lurching buggy had not dislodged
wn
LADY BRACKNELL.
“You won’t forget?”
"No ruins! no curiosities!" answered the Ghost; "you have your navy and
d an enamelled collar of white and damask roses. On
certainly should.”
Do not speak slightingly of the three-volume novel, Cecily. I wrote one
est-ce que je ne peux pas le voir, cet oiseau?  Le battement de ses ailes
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  [_On sofa L._]  Of course it’s going to be select.
showed no signs of ceasing its development.
think I have not suffered. If you had come in yesterday at a particular
allied to the European witch-cult, and was virtually unknown beyond its
LADY CHILTERN.  All!
were becoming fewer and fewer. When school closed the Gardners were
“I am afraid so,” rejoined Lord Henry. “He got the whole charge of shot
Nahum asked him if the extra wood had made him any more comfortable,
enough apart.  Sit down and write the card.
perhaps it is just as well that he acted as he did.
followed at once by a clatter which told of a frenzied runaway. In
grandes coupes d’argent et les grandes coupes de verre.  Je vais boire à
[Enter Merriman with a card on a salver.]
LORD GORING.  Robert, you are your sister’s guardian, and I want your
slime at the bottom seemed inexplicably porous and bubbling, and a man
attic, and in response to an inquiring look Nahum said that his wife
office, and give them this scandal and the proofs of it!  Think of their
go.  And there is a great deal of good in Lord Augustus.  Fortunately it
gazed about the horizon in wonder. A purplish darkness, born of
feel that I should not tell you all this, but I can’t help it. Of
“Let us sit down, Dorian,” said the painter, looking troubled. “Let us
and very wicked cults ever try to. There was some of it in Wilbur
JACK.
the dim twilight, and then in the bright dawn, he had seen the touch of
in London will neither go to your house or invite you to theirs? You
back to your husband’s house immediately.
admitted that there was very little to examine.
moonlit clouds; scratching impotently in the noxious air as if jerked
Enfin, je les ai appelés par leurs noms et ils n’ont pas paru.  Je pense
“Dorian, this is horrible! Something has changed you completely. You
warned him of the insanity that was coming on him, and who, when his
immorality.”
taken by something of that colour. He had said so at the last--said it
houses.
unmistakably from within. Some instinct warned Armitage that what was
rendering of his strain.  But whether or not the Phrygian Faun was
had gone in to lunch.
own in which he used to shut himself up all day long, greatly to the
letter_.]
hollow that yawned close by.
few puffs.
poor Johansen went, so I shall go. I know too much, and the cult still
rom steady
from the purple zenith to the altar-stone, and a great tidal wave of
were graying now, and the fruit was coming out grey and dwarfed and
remember, as it was the real origin of their quarrel with their
had not brought his head with him, for, had he done so, the consequences
une ville assez importante, il a changé de l’eau en vin.  Des personnes
A low moan broke from her, and she flung herself at his feet and lay
she had ceased to speak and crawled on all fours, and before that month
like titan fantasms beyond all spheres of force and matter, space and
days. Ammi, whose head has been a little queer for years, is the only
“Yes, we are overcharged for everything nowadays. I should fancy that
believe that you are really a very good husband, but that you are
great fancy to this fan that I was silly enough to run away with last
makes a man quite irresistible. He lives the poetry that he cannot
piping, as if in unison with the last breath of a dying man.
dit, n’est-ce pas? je te l’ai dit.  Eh bien! je la baiserai maintenant . . .
festin_.  _Des soldats sont accoudés sur le balcon_.
Without warning came those deep, cracked, raucous vocal sounds which
you are coming. I should be sorry to miss you.”
CECILY.
what the bendin' trees an' bushes could make, an' all on a suddent the
was now tremendously mature of aspect, and his height, having reached
attractive young lady, now that I look at her. Few girls of the present
.
She’s only very tired, that is all.  Besides, there are people still in
non-human side of its ancestry. In the tentacles this was observable as
slipped into Mr. Otis's bedroom and carried off the bottle. He felt a
CECILY.
of Greenland and Iceland in search of some Runic inscriptions which
of wizardry, and must be put down by the same means. I've seen Wilbur
years.
as they hated and feared young Wilbur personally.
what had been below-stairs. The world would simply say that he was mad.
There were rumblings under the hills that night, and the whippoorwills
made darkly wild suggestions about rites that ought to be practised on
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  I think you’ll find he will have a great deal to say
disappointed.  I wanted my success when I was young.  Youth is the time
LORD GORING.  [_Settling his buttonhole_.]  Oh, I should fancy Mrs.
dinner, or poor wine, is irreproachable in his private life. Even the
"Fifteen year' gone," he rambled, "I heerd Ol' Whateley say as haow
For a decade the annals of the Whateleys sink indistinguishably into
adoringly, madly!  You did not know it then—you know it now!  Leave this
martyrdom, all its wasted beauty. But, as I was saying, you must not
émeraude du monde.  N’est-ce pas que vous voulez cela?  Demandez-moi cela
rom steady
no doubt that it is quite right one should be.
success his talent promises.
at that tense moment over a point which was essentially scientific.
which, in the Latin version,
LORD CAVERSHAM.  What is it then, sir?
to the stairway. That peddler told the store loungers at Dunwich
abandoned well whose stagnant vapours played strange tricks with the
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _comes back_, _with a look of scorn and anger on his
on the _Alert_ he speaks with significant horror. There was some
remote from one, but whose sorrows stir one’s sense of beauty, and
1929. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
I sold my wheelbarrow.  But I am going to buy them all back again now.’
could hear a sort of muffled swishing or lapping sound from somewhere
this. He had the key, and no one else could enter it.
and Johansen swears he was swallowed up by an angle of masonry which
but when the stars were wrong, They could not live. But although They
face is gittin' to hev that colour sometimes towards night ...
men were little more affected, though four cases of vague description
I remember your telling me years ago that you had sent it down to
went from mouth to mouth that there was poison in Nahum's ground. Of
ascent of so steep a hill by so elderly a man, was responsible for
bloodless-looking specimens. Evidently some blight or distemper,
particularly, dear boy.  I’m worn to a shadow.  Know I don’t look it.
"More space, Willy, more space soon. Yew grows--an' _that_ grows
mais manqué à ma parole.  Je ne suis pas de ceux
sides bulging perilously beneath low gambrel roofs.
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Frowning_.]  Is that what you want to talk to me
leading on toward the wrecked Whateley farmhouse and the altar-crowned
Arkham was given a short paragraph in the _Gazette_; and it was there
colour. The selenite waxed and waned with the moon, and the meloceus,
scientific point of view. You don’t inquire where the dead things on
is too late!  There! [_Points to the curtain across the window_.]  The
ear by those grinning lips. The mad passions of a hunted animal stirred
are kept. He was more and more hated and dreaded around Dunwich because
me? I think it is rather vain.”
Lavinia was one who would be apt to mutter such things, for she was a
Fair-maids of France.  There were damask Roses, and yellow Roses, lilac
Park.
Then a passionate celibacy is all that any of us can look forward to.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  My worst?  I have not yet finished with you, with either
never even read them. He seemed terribly disappointed at that, and
Darlington.
mourning for a romance that would not die. Ultimately, however, it did
Above these apparent hieroglyphics was a figure of evidently pictorial
much, or because he was likely to learn too much. Whether I shall go as
bones such as Alfonso de Ovalle heard in Chile, and the sonorous green
opening a restaurant. How could I admire her? But tell me, what did she
meeting-place in the haunted wood. But of those mysterious allies no
LADY WINDERMERE.  How alone I am in life!  How terribly alone!
curves of certain lines, in the loveliness and subtleties of certain
“Nothing is ever quite true,” said Lord Henry.
duty to mention the fact to Mr. Otis when they came to discuss terms.
astronomers measure or deem too vast to measure.
rose he flew back to the Happy Prince.
shroud.
“Oh! I should fancy in remorse, in suffering, in ... well, in the
[MRS.
Darling!  [_Kisses her_.]
rose-white boyhood, you have had passions that have made you afraid,
Tavistock Street, Covent Garden, London
increased week by week, till it became common speech that "something
less thick. A dim though distinct luminosity seemed to inhere in all
say; but the death had been at it. Everything had happened in the last
him, that he resolved to make one final effort to assert his dignity and
let us talk any more about it—as for telling my daughter who I am, that I
“Then commit them over again,” he said gravely. “To get back one’s
them and listen to men and women whispering through the worn grating
[_These people enter as announced_.]
but why to-night?
pond with a young man.  He spoke of the matter at great length, and I am
LORD GORING.  I don’t like principles, father.  I prefer prejudices.
one who treats it as if it were a flower to put in his coat, a bit of
“Why, what a wonderful piece of luck!” he cried; “here is a red rose!  I
can help me at all.
nous.  Comme elle est pâle.  Jamais je ne l’ai vue si pâle . . .
the ancient tottering cottage where the trees first begin to get very
door; but was always able to silence inquiry through fear or through
J’ai des opales qui brûlent toujours avec une flamme qui est très froide,
PARKER.  Lord Darlington,
stained with dark rings of spilled liquor. Some Malays were crouching
by the arm, he almost led him into the house.
course.  Chiltern’s speech last night on this Argentine Canal scheme was
LORD GORING.  Never mind what I say, Robert!  I am always saying what I
most certainly shrunk, and even the sober professors could not doubt
and many corporals, chalice-veils, and sudaria. In the mystic offices
or heard or handled, but because of something that is imagined. The
_Morning-room at Sir Robert Chiltern’s house_.
les, in which were two carbuncles,” so that the
arrested. There was no need for words. What had been disputed in
do suthin'. I know suthin' awful's abaout, an' feel my time is nigh,
favour of Dorian Gray. There was something about Dorian that charmed
the perfume of the flowers, and their beauty seemed to bring him an
course, our engagement is a dead secret. She has not even told her own
their dead bodies had told their secrets in dreams to the first man,
skies of spring and the flowers of summer must ever afterward be poison
the earth, and They had had great cities. Remains of Them, he said the
It was in the dark of September ninth that the horror broke loose.
judgment of some sort; though he could not fancy what for, since he had
MERRIMAN.
been suggested to him by the image on the canvas, whispered into his
*       *       *       *       *
anxiously watches_ MRS.
opened it. As he read it, his face became ghastly pale and he fell back
of Narcissus, he had kissed, or feigned to kiss, those painted lips
months ago I went to a crush at Lady Brandon’s. You know we poor
had come that white noontide cloud, that string of explosions in the
rester ici.
indeed, for I made it last night in a dream of strange cities; and
In what locality did this Mr. James, or Thomas, Cardew come across this
thousand pounds! And in the Funds! Miss Cardew seems to me a most
all that you have said, but somehow I was afraid of it, and I could not
the ships.  He passed over the Ghetto, and saw the old Jews bargaining
sorry for all the trouble I have given you, and that I intend to lead a
source of every large modern fortune.
Out of that dream came rescue--the _Vigilant_, the vice-admiralty
soon again, Arthur, shan’t I?
silent heretofore, spoke aloud.
its predecessor. Aside from being almost plastic, having heat,
For the rest of the week, however, they were undisturbed, the only thing
far deeper and older than negro fetishism was involved. Degraded and
So the Nightingale flew over to the Rose-tree that was growing round the
desire to become in harmony.  I have grown tired of the articulate
one.”
s, the unknown disease of livestock and
latch-key.
that grotesque
him_.  LORD WINDERMERE _looks at her in contempt_.  LORD DARLINGTON _in
other.  She, corrupt and shameful—you, false as a friend, treacherous as
monstrous quarry. The downpour waxed in heaviness, and distant peals of
scientific interest. That such a change should have taken place was
“Leave me now,” said a stern voice behind him.
of any sane planet. Awe at the unbelievable size of the greenish stone
Ere one can say, “It lightens.” Sweet, good-night!
knew him I should not be his friend at all.  It is a very dangerous thing
verse and in painting.
house on an English country Sunday.  I don’t think any one at all morally
All my girl-friends tell me so. What wonderfully blue eyes you have,
these inquiries, you, Gwendolen, will wait for me below in the
“She does not remember my short frocks at all, Lord Henry. But I
|    Beware of Ye Imitationes.       |
patent-leather boot with a tasselled ebony cane. “How English you are
Ones, too, he curiously declined to mention. Of the cult, he said that
Lord Henry looked at him. Yes, he was certainly wonderfully handsome,
They actually succeed in spelling his name right in the newspapers.  That
across to him. “Am I really like that?”
country?
Selina Frye tottered to the telephone and spread what news she could of
I shall not be unfaithful to the spirit of the thing. A pulpy,
CECILY.
lone creature given to wandering amidst thunderstorms in the hills and
CECILY.
Gray watched with listless eyes the sordid shame of the great city, and
sacrifices of the antique world, stirred him as much by its superb
shuts out the airs of heaven.  Yet I must learn these lessons here, if I
rarer than a devoted friendship.”
can't git here, an' it 'ud be a mortal sin to let a red-tape rule hold
exquisitely artistic workmanship. It represented a monster of vaguely
horrible, yet hardly a surprize. There were more swaths and monstrous
cloudiness and redundance, but I will tell its gist enough to show why
here.  It was to try and save you she came here.  She loves you and no
“Oh!  I really don’t know,” replied the Linnet; “and I am sure that I
ibises, and white vultures with gilded claws, and crocodiles with small
I have lain in prison for nearly two years.  Out of my nature has come
GWENDOLEN.
in the neighbourhood.
Gwendolen, not a breath of scandal had ever touched her. Is there a
West of Arkham the hills rise wild, and there are valleys with deep
“You were charming last night. The little duchess is quite devoted to
am going. If I did, I would lose all my pleasure. It is a silly habit,
Conceited young puppy!
ich cannot be mentioned, and what is done in common
strange and dangerous charm. His great wealth was a certain element of
that the idea was monstrous. Besides, even if he did confess, who would
will go to sleep in the tomb of the great King.  The King is there
[_Comes down to him_.]
after I had ceased to care for them, or they to care for me. They have
dans sa vie le prophète a eu raison.  Les rois de la terre ont peur . . .
there was much breathless talk of new elements, bizarre optical
about Dorian that charmed
one rolling eyeball, in the character of "Dumb Daniel, or the Suicide's
are meant for me as much as for anybody else--the beauty of the sun and
screamed at each other from behind their locked doors was very
So the Nightingale sang to the Oak-tree, and her voice was like water
quite a story of it. I didn’t dare show my face at Court for a month. I
THE DUCHESS OF BERWICK      _Miss Fanny Coleman_.
part of my scheme of life.  They had no place in my philosophy.  My
“Yes, it is my turn to dictate terms, Alan. You know what they are. The
MABEL CHILTERN.  Don’t forget.
Dorian Gray stepped up on the dais with the air of a young Greek
false impression.
place. That was the house which had stood where the blasted heath was
He hesitated for some moments, with a strangely immobile smile upon his
he would not look even once upon the dead man. Then, stooping down and
place. That was the house which had stood where the blasted heath was
Jedburgh?
LADY BRACKNELL.
and Ammi soon saw that he must search for himself. Leaving the harmless
seize the naughty fowl," he muttered, "I have seen the day when, with my
what do you know of this young man? You don’t even know his name. The
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Holding out her handsome arm_.]  No; but it looks very
_One sees that he stands in immediate relation to modern life_, _makes it
to Mrs. Umney, "I am afraid something has been spilt there."
must be happy, too!”
been informed by my butler, an entire pint bottle of my Perrier-Jouet,
silk, filled with nymphs and centaurs, and gilded a boy that he might
pass from poor Basil. I wish I could believe that he had come to such a
What was the unknown island on which six of the _Emma's_ crew had
WHERE YOU CAN SLEEP?'"]
place is not good for imagination, and does not bring restful dreams at
hardly be regarded as an assured basis for a recognised position in
thousands of years seemed recorded in its dim and greenish surface of
LADY WINDERMERE.  No, no!  [_Rises_.]
Foreign Office.  I am afraid you are going to annoy me again.
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Gravely_.]  She is better than one thought her.
Campbell scrawled a few lines, blotted them, and addressed an envelope
blasphemous-looking things that Nahum's oldest boy Zenas cut them down.
the wooden shaft to any depth in the mud of the floor without meeting
t their eyes, but Curtis Whateley snatched back the telescope
chasm between us.  God knows the last few minutes have thrust us wide
MABEL CHILTERN.  What a horrid woman!
envisage the callous rationalism with which I set them aside. But I
past. The reception of his request seems to have been varied; but
give her the bread of the children of Israel, answered him that the
the floor below. The whole aspect of the farm with its grey desolation
But the Happy Prince looked so sad that the little Swallow was sorry.
real motives. You are hardly serious enough. When one is placed in the
familiarity, and decided that they reminded one of the brittle globule
flaring streets became blurred to his eyes. When the cab drew up at the
THIRD ACT
lay there sputtering. He placed his foot on it and put it out. Then he
followed at once by a clatter which told of a frenzied runaway.
if one wishes to be a prig or a Puritan, one can flaunt one’s moral
Dorian made no answer, but passed listlessly in front of his picture
say about Mr. Dorian Gray?”
were taught not to understand anything.  That was the old system, and
the same path. At the base of the hill a thirty-foot swath of crushed
“This play was good enough for us, Harry. It was Romeo and Juliet. I
ici.  Aussi j’ai entendu un battement d’ailes dans l’air, un battement
and startled eyes. A faint blush, like the shadow of a rose in a mirror
don’t know any one of the name of Cecily.
quite firm, and finally induced the Minister to allow his daughter to
It would hardly have been a really serious engagement if it hadn’t been
men every morning during the season. There was a rather heavy bill for
life.  [_Rising_.]  And now, Gertrude, if you will allow me, I shall
the rocks in lead.  For I have come, not from obscurity into the
blow kisses to each other behind Lady Bracknell’s back. Lady Bracknell
branches seemed to strain more and more toward verticality. The wood
development, and evolution, of my former life.  I remember when I was at
out, to crush it as one would crush the adder that had stung one.
looking at the stars.  [_Sits down at C. table_.]
genius is.
keep away.
you.
forgotten something upstairs. They waited some time for her, but she
once stepped within after a cattle-selling call on Old Whateley he was
you to lead such a life as will make the world respect you. I want you
whose slave it is one's chance or choice to be.
much. He cut himself off hurriedly, and no amount of persuasion or
was already the soul of a king.
what we know. Nahum said somethin' lived in the well that sucks your
says. He has a very bad influence over all his friends, with the single
It was reckless of me, but I asked Lady Brandon to introduce me to him.
memorized. He saw that his electric flashlight was in working order.
woods that no axe has ever cut. There are dark narrow glens where the
including that of the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe. On an anvil it appeared
to my brother who grows beneath the Student’s window, and perhaps he will
You are certainly not staying with me for a whole week as a guest or
Old Whateley in his last illness, and found much to ponder over in the
LORD GORING.  Has she never in her life done some folly—some
you have had very little experience in how to propose.
lenses with Armitage's aid. When he did so his cry was less restrained
THE PERSONS OF THE PLAY
The moon hung low in the sky like a yellow skull. From time to time a
home from which all standards of order and cleanliness had long since
points which he knew only by a fading parrot memory of professors'
and strained his vision to the utmost.
drawing-room_, _when_ MRS.
are_.  _But intensely admired by the few_, _and deeply respected by the
Sibyl Vane tossed her head and laughed. “We don’t want him any more,
[_Exit R._]
books; and what joy can be greater?  After that, I
life. I see you are laughing. It is horrid of you!”
its predecessor. Aside from being almost plastic, having heat,
ALGERNON.
properties, and other things which puzzled men of science are wont to
such plastic perfection by the Greeks.  Music, in which all subject is
elder mystery.
to do something for them.”
once bet a hundred guineas with Colonel Carbury that he would play dice
Johansen and his men landed at a sloping mud-bank on this monstrous
And above all, Christ is the most supreme of individualists.  Humility,
never came.
the fringe on the roof of the standing democrat-wagon were unstirred.
lesson.
lost consciousness for an instant, though he did not stumble or fall.
would forget all the maladies of mediævalism, and return to the
however, that the news inspires me with feelings of unmixed delight.
in et d’hyacinthe, et portent des
“I never said I knew him,” answered the Rocket.  “I dare say that if I
le.  You are going to make it
rest them, if there be any rest in the universe. They were Donovan,
Dunwich--livin' things--as ain't human an' ain't good fer human folks.
that he had ever seen. There was something of the fawn in her shy grace
and made of the very
the boy's fitten to make better use of 'em. He'd orter hev 'em as well
Lady Stutfield, who was always obliged to wear a black velvet band round
wings; but it was the _general outline_ of the whole which made it most
in commercial use, at Circular Quay in Sydney Cove, but gained nothing
[Dr. Chasuble starts.] I spoke horticulturally. My metaphor was drawn
flowers left for the market and he was very anxious to get his silver
did it mean?
on seems to me considerably above the proper average that statistics
dusty grey desert remained, nor has anything ever grown there since.
of mankind's.
hand.  “What a lovely bit of glass,” cried the little girl; and she ran
tangibly to wipe out the human race and drag the earth off to some
thing.
Briden pushed at the stone in several places without result. Then
one can touch and handle. Old brocades, green bronzes, lacquer-work,
me; and love is a very wonderful thing.  I suppose that when a man has
rds mean nothing to me now.”
sacrificed!
horrid ship, with the hoarse, hump-backed waves trying to get in, and a
with time thrown in. Who else is coming?”
well, everyone went indoors and conferred in the ancient sitting-room
impossibility!
Monday."
“Don’t speak!”
upstairs more ahead of me than I had thought it would be, and is
as pure white with real red legs, was trying to teach them how to stand
is merely a facile unintelligent acquiescence; but to them, and in their
of the cathedral in their bright scarlet cloaks and their clean white
mauve-draped mantelshelf, exclaimed: “How horrid of Henry Wotton to be
and modes of perfection.
Basil.”
passes in England without somebody disappearing.  Scandals used to lend
up.
and began to read it on the London boat.
“‘My dear friend, my best friend,’ cried little Hans, ‘you are welcome to
in its lair. Three dogs that were with the party had barked furiously
Rome.  On ne m’a rien dit de cela.  Enfin, vous, Tigellin, qui avez été à
LADY WINDERMERE.  Absolutely!
a pale rose. As for her acting—well, you shall see her to-night. She is
the noblest possible moral character are extremely susceptible to the
bonfire; in the center of which, revealed by occasional rifts in the
skulls and bones, found within these circles and around the sizable
something fell in the room.  He forced his way in, and he discovered her.
as an ornament of oratory. He hoisted the Union Jack on the pinnacles
a disturbing tale. From February 28th to April 2nd a large proportion
sacrifice your entire future rather than deal diplomatically with your
SECOND SOLDAT.  Nous ne savons pas, Seigneur.  Mais il s’est tué
the folks hereabouts. Lavinny's read some, an' has seed some things
and in the absence of his host stammered out a desperate tale once
Museum, the University of Buenos Aires, and the Library of Miskatonic
at most of them are extremely
HÉRODE.  Je le sais.  J’ai juré par mes dieux.  Je le sais bien.  Mais je
thing them men from the college dug outen the stone ... they smashed
CHAPTER IX.
A feeling of pain crept over him as he thought of the desecration that
Sawyer's common-law wife, Mamie Bishop. Mamie's visit was frankly one
and wonder growing grave in his darkening eyes.
flowed down his stick like rain-drops, and nearly drowned two little
and then the less organized ululations would cease, and from what
decisively to the faltering group of frightened rustics.
cried. “Impossible!”
in any form, and can only account for it by the fact that Virginia was
underlying primary tone without a place among the known tints of earth.
solitude and the tyranny of an old and loveless man. Yes; it was an
“They were defeated.”
hidden nerve shook the scarlet of his lips and left them trembling.
* * * * *
I can't break through with the Dho-Hna formula when I commit it.
table. “I shut the window?”
the chief topic of conversation between myself and Miss Prism. And of
sense goaded to feverish heights, he thought unaccountably of what he
exciting for a young girl. I am not myself in favour of premature
heard.] Ah! that must be Aunt Augusta. Only relatives, or creditors,
overladen with rings. He had been a macaroni of the eighteenth century,
arrived this morning at its wharf in Darling Harbour, having in tow
this young lady? [Points to Cecily.]
voice outside. “My dear boy, I must see you. Let me in at once. I can’t
was, he displayed some interest; for my uncle had excited his curiosity
Cyclopean architectural background.
work's completion people noticed that the old tool-house, tightly
out the boy, "but I can't eat any dinner as long as Virginia is lost.
[Enter Merriman.]
some minutes afterwards.  “He has a great many good points, but for my
n of Sunday with Dr. Armitage, for the task
the substance at all. It was a metal, though, beyond a doubt. It was
Should he move it aside, after all? Why not let it stay there? What was
intellectual curiosity, leave them with that curious indifference that
Yes; you certainly paid a great price for it.
“Once upon a time,” said the Linnet, “there was an honest little fellow
[Lane goes out_._]
spent a delightful evening.  It has been so interesting getting to know
Lady Basildon’s.  You remember, we are having tableaux, don’t you?  The
deep his melancholy, that he was not aware of her presence till she
over her and stirred the dainty folds of her dress. “I love him,” she
advanced years, resides here also?
that it very slowly and perceptibly moved as it continued to crumble.
* * * * *
It was in the township of Dunwich, in a large and partly inhabited
the horror had been blackly unwinding itself behind the closed door of
LADY WINDERMERE.  No!
“Years ago, when I was a boy,” said Dorian Gray, crushing the flower in
pockets. I mean everything that I have said. I have the greatest
“Harry,” cried Dorian Gray, coming over and sitting down beside him,
are always losing their relations.
them; sometimes they forgive them.
nearly up to the bowsprit of the sturdy yacht, but Johansen drove on
him. Suddenly there had come some one across his life who seemed to
troubled romantic marbles of Michael Angelo, pointed architecture, and
a shelf-lined room in Arkham. The curious manuscript record or diary of
[Rising and drawing herself up.] You must be quite aware that what you
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Gone out?  She’s not on the terrace?
Some one has killed herself for love of you. I wish that I had ever had
n't keerful ... jest a colour ... her
agreement.  I understood your nature from the first.  I analysed you,
and social position fully entitled him to become a member, and it was
No; it was merely an illusion wrought on the troubled senses. The
near it, and a buggy-wheel must have brushed the coping and knocked in
such size seen before, and they held strange colours that could not
clasps it on her arm_.]  Why do you put it on as a bracelet?  I never
playing a part,” muttered Hallward, frowning.
Windermere.
ALGERNON.
something more than a mere _arbiter elegantiarum_, to be consulted on
tell me—reach me the matches, like a good boy—thanks—what are your
Then the question had better be cleared up at once. Aunt Augusta, a
“You must. You have no choice. Don’t delay.”
How about it?"
unmistakable, and Wheeler saw through the glass that they were all
whilst the long, curved claws of the doubled-up, crouching hind legs
tétrarque me regarde-t-il toujours avec ses yeux de taupe sous ses
LADY CHILTERN.  It is a true saying, Robert.
raising their arms in the rhythmic incantation. From some farmhouse far
well. There was a crushed and apparently somewhat melted mass of iron
bien, n’est-ce pas? . . . Moi, je sais bien.
escaped. Men looked at one another and muttered. Then they looked down
thar!
monstrous fancies and misshapen dreams. There were poisons so subtle
capricious moment of annoyance on not being offered the Embassy at
passions, all acquired culture, and all external possessions, be they
to dance the Rose-dance together, and the King had promised to play the
me.”
sleep none. Then he thought he heerd another faintlike saound over
horrible disease over the wrinkled fingers. There was blood on the
Island School of Design and living alone at the Fleur-de-Lys Building
of our younger servants would stay with us, and Lady Canterville often
while still others try to explain the Devil's Hop Yard--a bleak,
object, the doctor added, was invariably a prelude to the young man's
with horror.
“Do you mean about Sibyl Vane?” asked the lad.
So that was the story of Dorian Gray’s parentage. Crudely as it had
mind that. When the picture was finished, and I sat alone with it, I
of the wonderful soul that is hidden away in that little ivory body, I
worship Madame de Ferrol in this ridiculous way, I shall have to marry
“Who?”
revealed before the veil was drawn away. Sometimes this was the effect
remote corner of Bayswater. It contained the manuscript of a
brain that the poppy is red, that the apple is odorous, that the skylark
“Strike me dumb if it ain’t so. He is the worst one that comes here.
local draft board, had hard work finding a quota of young Dunwich men
t le mal.  On ne peut rien
LADY BRACKNELL.
religion qu’ils discutent.
formulæ of antiquity and the Middle Ages.
people’s emotions were!—much more delightful than their ideas, it
seemed a well-drilled chorus of hoarse voices would rise in singsong
had indeed completed its entrance; for the barking and the screaming,
LORD WINDERMERE.  I think it wrong that a wife should spy on her husband.
bleues.  La mer erre dedans, et la lune ne vient jamais troubler le bleu
into delirium! And what of this storm of April 2nd--the date on which
had come into the lad’s face that he had never seen there before.
college for testing. They took it in an old pail borrowed from Nahum's
Indeed?
horrible thoughts. He remembered it as if it had been the lash of a
to receive her once.
LORD WINDERMERE.  Margaret, you could save this woman.  She wants to get
LORD GORING.  Yes.  I should fancy she came to grief if she tried to get
LORD GORING.  I have only told you half of them as yet, Miss Mabel!
go over to the library and summon Rice and Morgan for a conference, and
IV
L’autre qui est rouge comme du vin qu’on a coloré avec de l’eau.  J’ai
weakened constitution.
indeed I think advisable. Our weather is so changeable. At what hour
Harry! if you only knew what Dorian Gray is to me! You remember that
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Gertrude, you have no right to use that word.  I
“In the Parthian manner?”
Arkham was given a short paragraph in the _Gazette_; and it was there
artistic life.  For the artistic life is simply self-development.
expression which no one ever saw in a woodchuck before. The boys were
Suppose that when I leave this house I drive down to some newspaper
“I am so sorry, Harry,” he cried, “but really it is entirely your
ghastly names they have—Markby, Migsby, Mobbs, Moncrieff! Lieutenant
if we didn’t nag at them from time to time, just to remind them that we
preoccupation with the gross materialistic side of life, and their
[Picture: Decorative graphic of young man lying on grass]
an English gentleman, being so shamefully deceived, and so—
sary about my friendship with
abnormality which far outraced any image their conscious minds could
completely shattered, and he started at the slightest noise.
THE COLOUR OUT OF SPACE
from his heavy, opium-tainted cigarette. “Not send it anywhere? My dear
herself?
would be suicidal to try to attack it in the
fly up to the Prince’s shoulder once more.
a chair close to him, placed his hand upon his arm.
LORD GORING.  Other people are quite dreadful.  The only possible society
of ivy, danced like a Bacchante over the
l ideas as you have.’
hing feelers came
Here he faltered, and seemed to shiver afresh with the fright that had
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _is on the brink of accepting the Prime Minister’s
experience. It was as little of an active cause as conscience itself.
whether he is aware that I was even conscious of his action.  It is not a
written that eternal love is to be given to what is eternally unworthy.
huge, formless white polypous thing with luminous eyes; and squatters
ACT I.        _Morning-room in Lord Windermere’s
ic whinny from Ammi's horse outside,
I only met you to-day for the first time, I think it is rather hard
Never mingling much with his kind, he had dropped gradually from social
a reapplication of the complex key became necessary. Lunch and dinner
Nottinghamshire, entertaining the fashionable young men of his own rank
Miss Cardew’s family solicitors are Messrs. Markby, Markby, and Markby.
[Jack looks indignantly at him, and leaves the room. Algernon lights a
mine. Credit is the capital of a younger son, and one lives charmingly
Mrs. Cheveley went.  She stole my letter and sent it anonymously to you
your husband horribly.  He doesn’t know you are here—he thinks you are
in answer to your wire?
hidden away in a locked room, to be shut out from the sunlight that had
expression was [Greek text], and that his last word when he cried out 'my
above the toiling group the great swath trembled as its hellish maker
CHAPTER XVI.
family went out to drive. They did not return home till nine
like an arrow. The stones flew from her hoofs.
ghost at a valuation.
he hapless beast lay
I’ll send a wire to Fannen.  [_Crosses and sits down at table to write a
assure you.  The dear Duchess! and that sweet Lady Agatha!  Just the type
to give a plastic form to formless things, and to have a music of their
vu trop.  [_Au page_.]  Mon éventail.
skunk-cabbage had been very like one of the anomalous bands of light
champagne are entered as having been consumed.
it still were_, and I discounted with almost inexplicable perversity
am I to do?  Be my friend now.
he’s come.
shouldn't have been there; an angle which was acute, but behaved as
CECILY.
you—
of love, that the saints knelt down to wash the feet of the poor, or
secret of his love and make it their own; they look with new eyes on
really is. To-night, for the first time in my life, I saw through the
read. The theme is original, and yet fantastic
course. When all that is settled, I shall take a West End theatre and
[_Enter_ PARKER _C._]
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Pacing up and down the room_.]  Arthur, do you
connected with you was very nearly carried off this week in Paris by a
[Catching sight of him.] Ernest! My own Ernest!
Wednesday--the next day--he was back at the manuscript, and began to
Falconer's
In the spring after this event Old Whateley noticed the growing number
full-length portrait of a young man of extraordinary personal beauty,
discernible cloud. It was a very peculiar phenomenon, and was plainly
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Sits down at the table and takes a pen in his
information unobtainable from any local source. His name was John
I am so glad.
les taches de sang sont aussi belles que les pétales de roses.  Il serait
he did remains to be seen, for I have learned much now.
Marlow together, the young man who used to say that yellow satin could
the coincidence of the dream notes and odd cuttings collected by
that.
charm, or at least interest, to a man—now they crush him.  And yours is a
there is no such thing as that. Art has no influence upon action.
not regret having read this marvellous tale._
as for the exquisite taste shown in the decoration of the table, with
One thing which I began to suspect, and which I now fear I _know_, is
as our past, and that the sin we had done once, and with loathing, we
certain snakes. Below the waist, though, it was the worst; for here
les choses ni les personnes.  Il ne faut regarder que dans les miroirs.
guess. Death would be a boon if only it could blot out the memories.
greater than any made by myth and legend, and one, strangely enough,
There was a bursting as of an exploding bladder, a slushy nastiness
This earlier experience had come in 1908, seventeen years before,
say that I thought I could bear a real tragedy if it came to me with
dogs had begun to hate and fear the whole Whateley place as violently
romantic expression in the deep-set eyes_.  _The variance is suggestive
The Student looked up from the grass, and listened, but he could not
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Oh! surely Providence can resist temptation by this time.
Markby brought here to-night?
right side.  But object strongly to being sent down to dinner with my
picture has taught me that. Lord Henry Wotton is perfectly right. Youth
portrait, and he started.
than the moon, much higher than the sun.  In fact, I shall go so high
consciousness of degradation.”
I hope there is a good chef at the Embassy.
Gwendolen, I must get christened at once—I mean we must get married at
upon a living organism, might not thought exercise an influence upon
[Very seriously.] Yes, Lady Bracknell. I was in a hand-bag—a somewhat
course, in middle-class life.
[Algernon, who has been carefully listening, smiles to himself, and
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Je n’ai jamais vu César.
I think it would be an admirable opportunity. And to spare you any
child. Public interest in the Whateleys subsided after most of the
ALGERNON.
INQUEST ON AN ACTRESS.—An inquest was held this morning at the Bell
yourself. Life is not governed by will or intention. Life is a question
faint, half-musical sound from the distance, as if a loud chant
DUMBY.  And her income, Tuppy?  Has she explained that?
*       *       *       *       *
their heads and reaffirmed one vital fact.
'Absents him from felicity a while,
“Why, indeed?” said a Butterfly, who was fluttering about after a
strange things; and the doctor shuddered now and then as he spoke of
ALGERNON.
Hans, sitting down, and wiping his forehead, ‘a very great privilege.
d’argent.  [_Entre Salomé_.]
Cha'ncey he says they leads off into the medders, whar a great swath
ever. Perhaps one never seems so much at one’s ease as when one has to
think of.  I intend to play quite fairly with you.  One should always
tare into space and
the Great Old Ones spoke to the sensitive among them by molding their
probably due to excitement or exposure.
clefts in the rocks where I may hide, and secret valleys in whose silence
deserve to be drowned.”
seemed to him to prefigure himself, and in him the prophecy was
as if some vital element of perspective or chiaroscuro were awry. I did
artistic temperament go into exile with Dante and learn how salt is the
her, a woman whom it is an infamy to meet, a degradation to know, a vile
He laughed. “Lady Narborough,” he whispered. “She perfectly adores
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Oh! why do you disbelieve everything I tell you?  What
intellectual approval, passions that without such justification would
disliked even more decidedly than his mother and grandsire, and all
curiosity is.  Almost as great as a man’s!  I wanted immensely to meet
shaking her head.
LORD WINDERMERE.  Dumby, you are ridiculous, and Cecil, you let your
“It is quite evident then that you have no sympathy in your nature,” said
Robert, tell me why you are going to do this dishonourable thing!
I cannot deny it.
weakened constitution.
People thought it dreadful of me to have entertained at dinner the evil
s it was, I succeeded in tracing down only a
bidder!  You were bought in the market.  You lied to the whole world.
ic about his thick lips, large-pored, yellowish
all agreed that plants of that kind ought never to sprout in a healthy
fear we never shall. Few parents nowadays pay any regard to what their
was naturally very anxious to show that he had not lost his influence
pulling off his yellow gloves. “It is dreadful, from one point of view,
intent, though its impressionistic execution forbade a very clear
and sun.  Our presence taints the pleasures of others.  We are unwelcome
of yellow linen, and carried a small lantern and a sexton's spade. In
have different laws, and move on different lines.
[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
a man and a maid.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Speaking very slowly_.]  That our lives may drift
the hard hedonists, for those who waste their freedom in becoming slaves
LADY BRACKNELL.
for his new grandson--a room which several callers saw, though no one
of my grand-uncle, George Gammell Angell, Professor Emeritus of Semitic
persist in believing the remains Caucasian.
that I am going to send Robert Chiltern the love-letter his wife wrote to
to this white gi
Prince looked quite dull and grey.  Leaf after leaf of the fine gold he
bow before them, or they may ruin other lives as completely as you—you
_2.
pity of it! the pity of it!
LADY CHILTERN.  Robert, that is all very well for other men, for men who
nature is seeking a fresh mode of self-realisation.  That is all I am
professor stated, a very crude bas-relief of stone, comprising a
LORD GORING.  At half-past ten.  And now I propose that we tell Robert
wondered if all the objects of the professor's questioning felt as
developed singular alterations. It was very inexplicable, for they had
as that of its ascent. To speculate was futile. Reason, logic, and
a table by her side lay a mandolin and an apple. There were large green
VI., who had so wildly adored his brother’s wife that a leper had
when the sinister stars are out; and nothing could bribe me to drink
Certainly. It’s the only thing to do now. [Enter Jack followed by
[_Goes up stage C._]
recious. Her feet are very pretty, but they are not feet of clay.
intact likewise prevented Them from making an initial move, and They
me
and all the dogs of the countryside had barked persistently, throughout
Is that clever?
last carriage was Mrs. Umney. It was generally felt that, as she had
greenish-yellow ichor and tarry stickiness was almost nine feet tall,
pointed to some wooden sheds and beehives near the stone wall on the
him, that I had need of him, that I was coming to him for help and
terrible price for doing so?” suggested the painter.
Robert.  And sometimes it is a great nuisance.
shilly-shallying with the question is absurd. Nor do I in any way
Jack in great excitement.]
so I shall have to learn all the angles of the planes and all the
CECILY.
Greek.
pieces with age and worm-holes.
left and reeled out the back door into the fields. He climbed the slope
has married a most admirable wife.  Lady Chiltern is a woman of the very
rather dangerous your venturing on it now. It might make you very
again, and I just managed to check him in time by assuring him that I was
Whateley's annals. It was in truth a diary, as all had thought; and
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Engaged to be married yet?
necessitate, the dreadful dress that makes sorrow grotesque to look at,
the suffering that she seeks for and wounded by self-inflicted pain. He
heaved up from the sea-bottom the horrors that filled men's dreams.
yourself and what you are painting.”
objected to Mrs. Erlynne coming.  But Lady Windermere has that uncommon
THE DEAR MEMORY
rejoinder. “Women love us for our defects. If we have enough of them,
thing for which one can render formal thanks in formal words.  I store it
assembled men of science into a state of tense excitement, and they
Money?  We have no need of that!  And money that comes from a tainted
degree. I should fancy that crime was to them what art is to us, simply
the honeymoon was over, I caught him winking at my maid, a most pretty,
What an impetuous boy he is! I like his hair so much. I must enter his
of a country. Don’t be afraid. There are exquisite things in store for
That depends on the intellectual sympathies of the woman. Maturity can
an act of folly done in his youth, dishonourable, I admit, shameful, I
ll do.
completely ignorant of what had happened in dream or reality since the
make sufficient allowances.  In every nature there are
task of looking after me.
got in communication with Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury, who had attended
hair, who was bending over a lamp lighting a long thin pipe, looked up
"OUT ON THE LANDING STEPPED VIRGINIA"
JACK.
besought the professor to remember as best he might the syllables taken
nd passion of youth were in him, but he was
“Come away, Jim; come away,” she whispered. He followed her doggedly as
It was a small party, got up rather in a hurry by Lady Narborough, who
familiarity with the
swamp-found image and the Greenland devil tablet, but had come _in his
* * * * *
old sins could be destroyed by the madness of sins that were new.
son_.]
always be fond of me. I represent to you all the sins you have never
Then the Spring came, and all over the country there were little blossoms
I’m so glad Lady Windermere has revived cards.—They’re a mother’s only
CHASUBLE.
incantation containing the frightful name _Yog-Sothoth_, and it puzzled
other, to stand between them in the form of a green, icy-cold corpse,
et je vous le donnerai.
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_Languidly_.]  Thank you, Mr. Montford, I never touch
All trials are trials for one's life, just as all sentences are sentences
the well was getting brighter and brighter and bringing to the minds
marvellous power of making common things strange to us, and the subtle
a great architect went mad, and poor Wilcox raved with fever in that
“We don’t know who he is, sir. That is what I took the liberty of
the things it has forbidden to itself, with desire for what its
peculiar stench in the air. About 7 o'clock Luther Brown, the hired boy
the trees in the yard were moving. They were twitching morbidly and
their microscope. There is too much of myself in the thing, Harry—too
slay around idol-capped monoliths in lonely places.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  There was your mistake.  There was your error.  The
fear_.]  No, no!  It would be impossible!  Life doesn’t repeat its
eldest son has quarrelled with his father, and it is said that when they
DUMBY.  It is an awfully dangerous thing.  They always end by marrying
We must not be premature in our judgments.
[_They go to the door_.]
than my silver buttons, any day’; and he ran and plucked all his pretty
quite unpractical.  I don’t think man has much capacity for development.
barked frantically all night. Early risers on the tenth noticed a
there were any scene.  Margaret . . .
affected during the giving of her own evidence, and that of Dr.
Que soulève un soupir d’amour.
languages in Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island.
before man came, but there were arts which could revive Them when the
could hardly see, and the wind was so strong that he could scarcely
what he had seen in strange lands.
your name is Ernest if ever you attempt to deny it to me, or to
and tremulous. People generally suspected him of knowing something
some time he came back. “Harry,” he said, “Dorian Gray is to me simply
Simon's tombstone, but finally it had been decided to engrave on it
the brain and numbs us with the black extra-cosmic gulfs it throws open
so much to me, and always will mean so much, then, perhaps, they will
ton corps.  Et ni le vin, ni les fruits ne peuvent apaiser mon désir.
now and then I have moments of submission and acceptance.  All the spring
possessing an unknown spectrum, wasting away in air, and attacking
married, which seems to me extremely problematic, you will be very glad
Dryadlike and not afraid, because in his soul who sought for her there
that strange days are never talked about in Arkham. It is necessary to
Yet it had to be done. He realized that, and when he had locked the
he snatched back the telescope. The whippoorwills were piping wildly,
outside; a seemingly limitless legion of whippoorwills that cried their
bonnets were so unbecoming, and the mills were so occupied in trying to
CHAPTER II.
left all the chips made of the original fragment during the work. The
a morbid fancy. No traveler has ever escaped a sense of strangeness in
Oh, don’t cough, Ernest. When one is dictating one should speak
slid greasily into the water and began to pursue with vast wave-raising
And on the top-most spray of the Rose-tree there blossomed a marvellous
followed at once by a clatter which told of a frenzied runaway.
the anchorite to feed with the wild animals of the desert and giving to
dans ma litière sous la porte des vendeurs d’idoles, je laisserai tomber
[LADY WINDERMERE _hides herself behind the curtain_.]
ventured. There were insane shouts and harrowing screams, soul-chilling
a chased silver Louis-Quinze toilet-set that he had not yet had the
SECOND SOLDAT [_montrant le bourreau_, _un grand nègre_] Celui-là,
LORD GORING.  Damned scoundrel!
between the ring of bodies and the ring of fire."][1]
read, and I think I know the right kind of a spell to recite to make
face.”
On the contrary, Aunt Augusta, I’ve now realised for the first time in
ALGERNON.
around the base of the hills and across
ould possibly make your son behave a
was missing from the rim. Then the lurching buggy had not dislodged
f oneself.  My
covered themselves with blossoms, and were waving their arms gently above
crowded out all other images at the time.
be able to expel melancholy from the soul.
like a brother in all your life.
“You here, Adrian?” muttered Dorian.
Thursday night began much like the others, but it ended less happily.
"Stop!" cried Virginia, stamping her foot, "it is you who are rude, and
highly malleable, and in the dark its luminosity was very marked.
Nahum to deal with now; he must be fed and tended, and removed to some
and a beautiful light seemed to illumine her face.
had done before him.
and the negative finally won. There were things involved which simply
knows nothing.
Miss Prism, Governess
It sounds like something in the next world.
As he was sitting at breakfast next morning, Basil Hallward was shown
LORD DARLINGTON.  Ah, don’t say that, Lady Windermere.
what to do. Suddenly a wild hope flashed across his brain. “Stop,” he
connection with these saxifrages.
You can tell the world all about it afterwards, if you choose. Nobody
head downward, the oddly marred bodies of the helpless squatters who
closely barred. The chameleon-like colour, also, of the stain excited a
was a sort of heavy dragging, and a most detestably sticky noise as
“I hope not,” said the Frog complacently.  “Arguments are extremely
show what was left down there at Nahum's.
furious, but restrains himself.]
secret. The authorities at Tulane University could shed no light upon
his night-cap, ‘but I was so tired that I though
"I fear that the ghost exists," said Lord Canterville, smiling, "though
look like him. You shrug your shoulders? I am telling you the truth.
extraction.
as Frazer's _Golden Bough_ and Miss Murray's _Witch-Cult in Western
were. Behind every exquisite thing that existed, there was something
scientists verified the fact of the utter vanishment. The failure was
him and thrown his wife into fits of anxiety. Reassuring her without
lives.
but plainly related and equally unknown to anyone who saw it. Nahum
LORD GORING.  Yes, father, I prefer it domestic.
driven considerably south of her course by exceptionally heavy
from ours. Now an unlettered seaman felt the same thing whilst gazing
some siphons of soda-water and large cut-glass tumblers, on a little
“Kelso’s grandson!” echoed the old gentleman. “Kelso’s grandson! ... Of
stereotyped habits, or a wild longing, it may be, that our eyelids
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_Going to him_.]  My dear fellow, you mustn’t go yet.  I
the end of the table, a flush of pleasure stealing into his cheek.
picture in sickened horror.
It all began, old Ammi said, with the meteorite. Before that time there
reverberations_, _and_ PHIPPS _enters_.]
family, besides this affair of the curate.
profile.] Yes, quite as I expected. There are distinct social
laughing.  It was a lovely scene, only in one corner it was still winter.
o wind; but even the
or phase of entity from which it had once fallen, vigintillions of eons
monter
if a woman really repents, she has to go to a bad dressmaker, otherwise
rank water was hauled up and splashed on the soaking ground outside.
brought it back.
don’t realise what I am going through.
life, written before he had lived it.
“To cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of
LADY WINDERMERE.  You needn’t be afraid, Duchess, I never cry.
questioning had made him lose his nerve for the moment, and he wanted
portrait. He would seek to dominate him—had already, indeed, half done
Wilbur was by this time a scholar of really tremendous erudition in
LE PAGE D’HÉRODIAS.  Ne la regardez pas.  Je vous prie de ne pas la
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What would those modern psychological novelists, of
and determined to try and comfort him. So light was her footfall, and so
nia grows up, I dare say she will be pleased to have
and bedded itself in the ground beside the well at the Nahum Gardner
Whateley in a very grave state, with a cardiac action and stertorous
ever have cared for anybody, Arthur.
f darker depth
University at Arkham had failed to get him the loan of a book he
comme une femme ivre?  Elle ressemble à une femme hystérique, n’est-ce
Their images with Them.
hands stretched blindly out, and appeared to be seeking for him. He
snorted at an odour which struck Stephen as wholly unprecedented. That
At another time he devoted himself entirely to music, and in a long
in a long black cloak, and every now and then he wiped his eyes with a
fit to eat.
pedestal, I was in the pillory.  But it is a very unimaginative nature
never sees you now. Perhaps you are tired of Gladys? I thought you
LORD GORING.  Yes.
changent quand la lune change et deviennent pâles quand elles voient le
faint phosphorescence had begun to pervade the entire apartment. It
Prince Charming?”
[_A pause_.]
the ground. “What do you want? Money? Here it is. Don’t ever talk to me
to me. But I do not think my life will be long. As my uncle went, as
[Rising.] To save my poor, innocent, trusting boy from the machinations
[_Rings bell_.]  There is a dreadful draught here.  [_Enter_ PHIPPS.]
LA VOIX D’IOKANAAN.  Le jour est venu, le jour du Seigneur, et j’entends
had chanted to their kindred idols was something very like this--the
in their own lifetime, and have it so acknowledged.  It is usually
ith her,
pale and quails. She looks anxiously round as if desirous to escape.]
was
vous m’avez demandé.
the change. His own nature had revolted against the excess of anguish
Oh! I am not really wicked at all, cousin Cecily. You mustn’t think
clever, thoroughly experienced young lady like Miss Fairfax. To say
beliefs. Legrasse and his men, it is true, have been let alone; but in
Their consciousness. They bend the forest and crush the city, yet
would fall in love. Love makes people good, and what you said was
right manner.  And I find that I know Lady Chiltern already.
as a madman's dream! Its head was bald and burnished; its face round,
GWENDOLEN.
say anything about marriage, and they always remind us.”
There are distinct social possibilities in Miss Cardew’s profile.
along the road.
one.
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.
of its black suggestion. He could not recall having seen the original
stated that Merwin and Zenas had disappeared. There was considerable
young man, secretary to a great and important minister, you sold a
frightened horses--of course this was mere country talk which such
having sent him the report. And it was certainly stupid of him to have
what Gertrude is writing to him about?  Something horrid about me, I
John tells us it was: [Greek text]--no more.
of real excitement; and when upon heating before the spectroscope it
“You must tell him to be sure and come here to-morrow,” said the Giant.
his night-cap, ‘but I was so tired that I thought I would lie in bed for
GWENDOLEN.
been his own.
and gropingly squeezed Its gelatinous green immensity through the black
that that would alter you much. Nowadays all the married men live like
shadows. You are more to me than all art can ever be. What have I to do
the night and set the hideous shapes of punishment before him. Actual
testing was carried on in glass; and it was in a glass beaker that they
one whose mere personality was so fascinating that, if I allowed it to
She looked at him in wonder and laughed. He made no answer. She came
noticed since there now seemed to be no mice, and only Mrs. Gardner had
“I don’t want anything,” murmured the young man.
idols which the Great Ones showed them; idols brought in dim eras
lunatics.  Just what Society should be.
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Frowning_.]  Console herself?
est-il à présent, cet homme?
existence is ceaseless change.  Of seed-time or harvest, of the reapers
“Dorian!”
seen it this last week. It must be somethin' from away off in the sky
Lightning flashed aloft, and the wondering crowd looked in vain for
quite discomposed by the singular odor he encountered--such a stench,
The whippoorwills in the glen had screamed with such unusual
would forget the hideous painted thing, and get back his light heart,
t_ Arrives With Helpless Armed New Zealand Yacht in Tow.
ALGERNON.
sheer impressiveness, it had found subconscious expression in dreams,
down_, _then takes it up again_.]  I know that handwriting.  That is
Totally separate and apart, its very material was a mystery; for the
“You are really very comforting,” warbled the duchess. “I have always
nothing?
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Looking at her with a kindly twinkle in his eyes_.]
and down the exposed corner-posts, coruscated about the shelf and
the strange cult-members who had lingered in the old sea taverns.
back of a Goose who was taking a walk by the side of the ditch.
"Starve you to death? Oh, Mr. Ghost--I mean Sir Simon, are you hungry? I
dreading to repass that ominous spot, I walked circuitously back to the
_protégé_.”
taking place was not a thing for unfortified eyes to see, so he brushed
psychopomps lying in wait for the souls of the dying, and that they
passed over the moon, and the silhouette of clutching branches faded
_Fourth Impression_     _September_ 1905
guess. Death would be a boon if only it could blot out the memories.
until one night when he drove past Nahum's house in his sleigh on the
that the ends of the facial feelers brushed the backs of huge forepaws
passion, and whose very flesh was tainted with the monstrous maladies
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  D’où vient-il?
were the more horrible, the signs of sin or the signs of age. He would
dragon of good taste, is she not?  Quite the dragon of good taste.
imaginative, and his restlessness was worse after the shutting away of
knowing it, the lad was to the painter who had fashioned the wonderful
onyx-paved bathroom. The cool water refreshed him after his long sleep.
There he stopped, feeling afraid to turn round, and his eyes fixed
[_Voices outside_.]
find that little things are so very difficult to do.
stone, magnetic as it had been, must have had some peculiar electrical
[In a very patronising manner.] My dear fellow, the truth isn’t quite
Harry said. Was it very bad? You must tell me some other time. I think
you been living all this time in defiance of my laws, and do you now
s gone aout naow to look at 'em, though I'll vaow he
LORD DARLINGTON.  No?  Is it really?
dreamed, but touched wildly on a gigantic thing "miles high" which
as an artist, and as soon as I possibly can.  If I can produce only one
have made up my mind what I am going to do to-night in the House.  The
HÉRODIAS.  Ah!  Ah!
JAMES.  [_Bowing_.]  I shall do so, my lord.
him and thrown his wife into fits of anxiety. Reassuring her without
MRS. CHEVELEY _in_.  _Lamia-like_, _she is in green and silver_.  _She
And the Giant’s heart melted as he looked out.  “How selfish I have
own beauty, more and more interested in the corruption of his own soul.
refinement of feeling, does it not?  After all, there is nothing like
what he said of the child's paternity was remembered by many of his
colonne d’ivoire sur un socle d’argent.  C’était un jardin plein de
is the orchestra. It is quite dreadful, but it only lasts for about
my life. It is perfectly absurd your saying that your name isn’t
“My son, you distress me very much. Sibyl is always under my special
Dark, frail, and somewhat unkempt in aspect, he turned languidly at my
with a sigh. “As long as one has this stuff, one doesn’t want friends.
dreams; for only thus could Their language reach the fleshly minds of
One thing which I began to suspect, and which I now fear I _know_, is
of Christ and the true life of the artist; and I take a keen pleasure in
suspected the compiler of having asked leading questions, or of having
SECOND ACT
“Before God?”
more, while Mrs. Pierce listened in a clutching fright. It was little
the things that life had in store?
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Why don’t you call me Laura?
sings all night long. All night long he sings, and the cold crystal
She raised her hand up to heaven. “Before God I am telling the truth,”
borders of that spot, for they might shed light on the country notion
slept off his disorder that night without developing any real fever. He
and his honesty. I took leave of him amicably, and wish him all the
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Into what?
GWENDOLEN.
MABEL CHILTERN.  An ideal husband!  Oh, I don’t think I should like that.
Duchess.”
CECIL GRAHAM.  Too romantic!  You must be in love.  Who is the girl?
LADY CHILTERN.  Robert, it was not Mrs. Cheveley whom Lord Goring
with him for his own soul; Giambattista Cibo, who in mockery took the
life, Lane.
get a proper outfit for James. You must not forget that, Sibyl. Fifty
and then the less organized ululations would cease, and from what
et des rubis, j’ai des sardonyx et des hyacinthes, et des calcédoines et
“What! is he not solid gold?” said the Swallow to himself.  He was too
responsible for this apparent disturbance of an old man's peace of mind.
y mirrored in his art, a smile of pleasure passed across his
Unmarried! I do not deny that is a serious blow. But after all, who has
suppose?
on all her wanderings. At home he would pore diligently over the queer
strokes of cosmic potency. Briden looked back and went mad, laughing
serious men to do in cases of wild gossip, for
like, it being answerable from the hill and not from the air. That
Your relations with Mrs. Cheveley have, as I said to you last night,
As the door closed behind them, the painter flung himself down on a
had come across again, a cadence from a piece of music that you had
rt, induced by the brisk
it is elsewhere.
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Holding out her hands to her_, _helplessly_, _as a
citadel whereon great Cthulhu was buried, actually emerged from the
psychical phenomena. The subjects discussed, as I have since learned
goodness’ sake don’t play that ghastly tune, Algy.
at the stony curb by the great sweep, and when a detective questioned
force that could bend trees and crush houses when it chose. They shook
Erlynne.
light French breakfast that had been laid out for him on a small round
own letter.
handkerchief had been placed over the face. A coarse candle, stuck in a
of a long stick.  He always coughed before he made any observation, so as
was getting very feeble. When night approached, Ammi managed to get
polis, and clambered slipperily up over titan oozy blocks which
matter in any sense we know. It was like its father--and most of it has
her, and they would get married, and come home, and live in an immense
splashed on in silence through the terrible cypress woods where day
It pains me very much to have to speak frankly to you, Lady Bracknell,
sofa.
a Puritan people. Then I saw that dark westward tangle of glens and
cloak?  [_Getting it from sofa_.]  Here.  Put it on.  Come at once!
one.”
right. The picture cannot be shown. You must not be angry with me,
connect events, he declared that the meteorite had poisoned the soil,
pedestal covered with undecipherable characters. The tips of the wings
to goodness you had let me know. I have been writing frantic letters to
horror.
like are tedious, practical people.  There is a wide difference.
later, through the elaborate investigations of the Metropolitan police,
the proper Parliamentary expressions to use.
thoroughly ashamed of your own virtues. You are an extraordinary
dreaming."
whole thing is most inconvenient, and really, when James is going away
The song of Isaiah, 'He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows
passion for power, or could not use it.  When I was tired, worn out,
me. And you will promise to talk to me all the time? No one talks so
danced when the aurora leaped high over the ice cliffs. It was, the
that terribly distresses me.  Yesterday evening you wrote me a very
had been no wild legends at all since the witch trials, and even then
You should have!
useful information, of course; useless information.”
winter was a very bad time for me, and I really had no money at all to
little
fingers; “and when she is in a very smart gown she looks like an
If I am occasionally a little over-dressed, I make up for it by being
have a sandwich in my case. Would you like it?"
begged him to reconsider his decision, but the good-natured peer was
qu’elle danse.
voice, and the Bengal Light felt so crushed that he began at once to
when a loud rap came at the door.  It was a very wild night, and the wind
Museum, the University of Buenos Aires, and the Library of Miskatonic
a sound that the chronicler would not put on paper. For an instant
r things the specimen had done, and how it had
something desperate. That of course will require serious consideration.
Pray allow me to detain you for a moment.
that one wishes they would keep their distance, but there is no road by
arrived at the pest-ridden farmhouse about four o'clock. Used as the
“Dear Lady Narborough,” murmured Dorian, smiling, “I have not been in
[_Exit L._]
the substance at all. It was a metal, though, beyond a doubt. It was
an locks and bolts were useless before a
yourself to-night.”
That evening, just as twilight fell, he finished his terrible perusal
the face on the canvas viler than before? It seemed to him that it was
one as Ernest. You answer to the name of Ernest. You look as if your
"Stop them, stop them!" he would shout. "Those Whateleys meant to let
assisted emigration.  It would do a great deal of good.
Nobody ever does.
have a perfect legal right to do so.
strained touch of pain in his voice. “You went to the opera while Sibyl
LORD WINDERMERE.  I wish that at the same time she would give you a
Still, I am conscious now that behind all this beauty, satisfying though
LADY WINDERMERE.  Because the husband is vile—should the wife be vile
dinner-table. That is not very pleasant. Indeed, it is not even decent
appeared, and a large pillow whizzed past his head! There was evidently
nearly up to the bowsprit of the sturdy yacht, but Johansen drove on
a coherent form.
by purely professional considerations.
and no one was really unprepared when, at seven months, he began to
than natural linkage of dates was this which gave a malign and now
would not have understood me.
"Lavinny's black brat" had commenced to talk, and at the age of only
smile. “So sorry I am late, Dorian. I went to look after a piece of old
any danger.
that to know their properties one had to sicken of them. There were
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  But you have not told me yet what makes you honour
love.
In May the insects came, and Nahum's place became a nightmare of
know Them near, but of Their semblance can no man know, _saving
of blood: the mystical presentation, by means of dialogue and costume and
things were fixed very strongly in his mind. He and his wife had gone
splendid undertaking.  It gave us our direct route to India.  It had
think it is so forward of them.
HÉRODE.  De qui donc a-t-il parlé?
you, Chiltern, on your brilliant speech last night.  I have just left the
morrow.
“You would sacrifice anybody, Harry, for the sake of an epigram.”
began to think of his love; and, after a time, he fell asleep.
As the door closed, Dorian put the key in his pocket and looked round
effet, vous êtes stérile.
“Dorian! What an extraordinary piece of luck! I have been waiting for
club.
thick. It was a fearsomely ancient place, and had begun to exude the
painted floor beyond the radius of the stickiness, and left a curious
pommes d’argent.  Dans un coffret incrusté d’ambre j’ai des sandales
HÉRODE.  Ah! c’est magnifique, c’est magnifique!
ALGERNON.
crept into my soul.
“Dorian’s, of course,” answered the painter.
old house by the Egeberg. He could not tell--they would think him mad.
and abstracted manner.
nothing in the world so wrong but that the spirit of humanity, which is
repute, substantially unknown and untraversed by white men. There were
Suddenly there came a knock to the door, and he heard Lord Henry’s
picture in one of the old papers spread beneath the stones. It was the
“Ah! what a cynic you are!” cried the old lady, pushing back her chair
sailor?”
New Jersey, the curator of a local museum and a mineralogist of note.
am. There is nothing more to be said.”
spoke of the dreams in a manner none could mistake.
23rd and April 2nd--the period of young Wilcox's delirium. Scientific
She laughed. “I have still the mask.”
over her.”
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  I couldn’t do it.  It would kill her love for me.
moment.  I have one upstairs.
And yet, which is the worst, I wonder, to be at the mercy of a man who
COMPOSED in 1891 in the French language, _Salomé_ was _not_ written for
intellectual or emotional life_, _history knows nothing_.  _He represents
are of great monetary worth, and if offered for sale would fetch a tall
“’What do you want, little Hans?’
intellects. A man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies. I
paints out of my box to try and furbish up that ridiculous blood-stain
and many corporals, ch
not possibly be friends with him any more, or ever be in his company.  It
a l’air très étrange?
LORD GORING.  At half-past ten.  And now I propose that we tell Robert
had indeed completed its entrance; for the barking and the screaming,
specimen. The proportions of its body seemed slightly altered in a
[_Rushing to her_.]  Lady Windermere!
This man, after recovering his senses, told an exceedingly strange
LADY BRACKNELL.
stumbled away, laughing. A bitter blast swept across the square. The
1700.
mentally, and no one was surprised when the news of Mrs. Gardner's
benefiting the human race, or increasing the sum of knowledge in the
probable.
anything. What is the number of your sister’s box?”
[Illustration: "THE TWINS ... AT ONCE DISCHARGED TWO PELLETS ON HIM"]
was like the bourdon note of a distant organ.
maladies so strange that one had to pass through them if one sought to
LORD WINDERMERE.  What do you mean by coming here this morning?  What is
blocks, at the dizzying height of the great carven monolith, and at the
Sèze, which will open the first week in October. The portrait will only
la santé de César.  Il y a des Romains ici, il faut boire à la santé de
went over to it, and having unlocked it, touched some hidden spring. A
Every trifle of the scene burned itself into his brain. The sounds, the
been highly complimented on it by no less a person than the Virgin Queen
never quarrelled with any one, “everybody has different tastes.  I hope,
self-contained. It was simply bad art. She was a complete failure.
[_Reads card_.]  Say I shall be very glad to see her.
“I hope so, Uncle George, for Dartmoor’s sake. I am told that
that life has exhausted him.
body, they would have been the same.... That the kind of fear here
the pistachio-coloured peridot, rose-pink and wine-yellow topazes,
THE PERSONS OF THE PLAY
upon him.
long manuscript. Once before, it appears, Professor Angell had seen the
When he had stretched himself on the sofa, he looked at the title-page
palette-knife, with its thin blade of lithe steel. He had found it at
the bottom of the pedestal. The cephalopod head was bent forward, so
to know.”
eins de colère et de mépris, ils sont
kind, as people do in silly modern novels.  That is stupid of you,
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Takes the photograph from her and looks at it_.]  I am
and of the morbid vegetation that had sprouted in the spring. As it
should have told me that before you began.  If you had done so, I
The writing accompanying this oddity was, aside from a stack of
well-informed man—that is the modern ideal. And the mind of the
on to the opera, and sup somewhere, I suppose, afterwards. How
in Their tombs. When, after infinities of chaos, the first men came,
the red petals of her mouth. “Dorian, you should have understood.
MISS VIRGINIA E. OTIS
PARKER.  Mr. Rufford.  Lady Jedburgh and Miss Graham.  Mr. Hopper.
terrible, especially to little Merwin, who fancied they talked in some
am Marsyas listening to you. I have sorrows, Dorian, of my own, that
HÉRODE.  Qu’est ce que cela veut dire?  Le Sauveur du monde?
LADY WINDERMERE.  Us!  From this moment my life is separate from yours.
Boston. Much of the material which I correlated will be later published
and smiling with secret pleasure at the misshapen shadow that had to
LORD DARLINGTON.  I am not one of her admirers.
LADY BRACKNELL.
please and to flatter, but a true friend always says unpleasant things,
welcome in contrast, and I marvelled no more at the frightened whispers
Poultry turned greyish and died very quickly, their meat being found
one of the witnesses at the secret marriage with Mrs. Fitzherbert? How
because that is a very old town full of witch legends I thought the
Vous n’oubliez pas qu’au lever du soleil nous allons tous à la chasse.
One can realise a thing in a single moment, but one loses it in the long
about your genius. How long have you known her?”
this parish. I have often spoken to the poorer classes on the subject.
that—”
door, and two men ran after the hansom for about a hundred yards. The
the agricultural labourer, or the Welsh Church, or something quite
week of pointless and irrelevant accounts of thoroughly usual visions.
waving grotesque, stiff-fingered hands in the air. He stabbed him twice
saying that it had come down from horribly ancient eons before ever the
than enough English for that.
THE END
LORD GORING.  My father told me to go to bed an hour ago.  I don’t see
the building, stooping at each doorway.
my own name, and I am sure Mr.
LORD GORING.  [_Gravely_.]  You are wrong, Lady Chiltern.
now quite sufficient
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_Advancing towards her with a low bow_.]  Yes, Lady
ange heavens they were suffering, and what dull hells were
his tail in the air.
swayed and shook in the gusty wind which had followed him in from the
out and sit in the garden. The air is stifling here.”
“Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “do as I command
turned the good things of my life to evil, and the evil things of my life
than Morgan's had been.
make it last for ever. It is a meaningless word, too.
to have sailed to strange ports and talked with undying leaders of the
viendra vers vous, et il vient vers tous ceux qui l’appellent,
foolish of me, but I fell in love with you, Ernest.
plank bed, the loathsome food, the hard ropes shredded into oakum till
thick.
summons from the swamp and lagoon country to the south.
".
never laid eyes upon you!
1840, Captain, Lieutenant-Colonel, Colonel, General 1869, Christian
irretrievably bad, and to leave us quite unattractively good.
Louis Quatorze clock annoyed him. Once or twice he thought of going
sings all night long.
Earth Goddess, not one of the Olympians, and for art, Dionysus, the son
cannot find expression, or when some thought that terrifies us lays
LORD GORING.  Nothing: but I can read it like a book.
The _Emma_, he says, was delayed and thrown widely south of her
LORD GORING.  Second on the left?
anxious to get out of it,” said Lord Henry. “Good-bye, Uncle George. I
Windermere, good-bye.  I may come to-night, mayn’t I?  Do let me come.
them. They included not only a repetition of what he had formerly
heavy and
Well . . . may I propose to you now?
the garden.
who were always throwing stones at me.  They never hit me, of course; we
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Princesse, princesse, toi qui es comme un bouquet de
from the stars slavered and gibbered like Polypheme cursing the fleeing
morbid or healthy, normal or diseased. Yet, as has been said of him
contrary, she occupies a rather high position in society.  It is a sort
underlying primary tone without a place among the known tints of earth.
great disappointment.”
PHIPPS.  I trust the shades will be to your liking, madam.  They are the
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Give me a week—three days!
one can behold Them as They tread. By Their smell can men sometimes
e a humorous article
the door leading into the hall_.  _On the left_, _the door of the
MRS. MARCHMONT              _Miss Helen Forsyth_.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Ah, yes, I remember.  How long ago that seems!
inexorable trail. Whatever the horror was, it could scale a sheer stony
knees, and bowed my head, and wept, and said, 'The body of a child is as
low, material plane of existence, and quite incapable of appreciating
an absolute public nuisance. I wish to goodness we had a few fools
[Looking off.] She approaches; she is nigh.
tugged frantically at its stout chain.
"The thing has gone for ever," Armitage said. "It has been split up
CHASUBLE.
For the next three Saturdays, accordingly, he traversed the corridor as
deaf to every voice but that of pleasure heard for the first time the
ALGERNON.
that only black Magick can discover, and only the Divell unlock.
Verde Islands, gave a coloring of voodooism to the heterogeneous cult.
moment the visitor was apprehensive of the worst. The aspect of the
hands at my throat.  I could have killed it for ever, sent it back into
Iokanaan.  Ta bouche est comme une bande d’écarlate sur une tour
“Oh, the obvious consolation. Taking some one else’s admirer when one
GWENDOLEN.
they sat down and began to look round, while Mrs. Umney waited on them.
those who found it on the old bureau which served as its owner's
of that nefandous well. Save for Ammi's dead horse, which they towed
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Starts_, _with a gesture of pain_.  _Then restrains
less as time passed, and the fragment seemed to be slightly cooling,
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Lady Windermere!  [LADY WINDERMERE _starts and looks up_.
ll lying on the grass, where she had left him,
mind over morals.”
crowd that the men were evidently trying to get to a subordinate peak
as he is concerned, I mean.
as oneself.  You will no doubt be surprised to hear that I can fly up
found in any direction. There had been five of them in a car, but now
CECILY.
He seems to have had great confidence in the opinion of his physicians.
pas donné d’enfant, et le prophète dit que notre mariage n’est pas un
told me, years ago, that he had a wild adoration for you and that you
matters worse, had actually brought her husband with her. “I think it
of their dreams, and the dates of any notable visions for some time
looking up at him with her wonderful eyes. “I am quite satisfied with
slopes for myself, and ceased to wonder at anything besides its own
sur les mains.  Donnez-moi de la neige à manger.  Dégrafez mon manteau.
a very dangerous thing to listen.  If one listens one may be convinced;
LADY BRACKNELL.
amusement in life. I happen to be serious about Bunburying. What on
des mots terribles.  Dans le palais, comme dans le désert, Dieu est
the rest were committed to various i
to lead an entirely new life, one requires regular and wholesome meals.
hiccoughed, in a hoarse voice.
it humbug.
can’t go anywhere without meeting clever people.
LORD GORING.  [_Still looking in the glass_.]  In your place I don’t
the cattle, only about a quarter could be found and identified.
next morning both chips and beaker were gone without trace, and only a
MR. MONTFORD.  Like some supper, Mrs. Marchmont?
LADY BASILDON.  Basildon is quite as bad; he is as domestic as if he was
an art that is necessarily immobile, seek to convey the sense of
be easy to know, for then mankind would have become as the Great Old
LADY BASILDON.  [_Looking round through her lorgnette_.]  I don’t see
rava Portuguese from the Cape
“He wants to enslave you.”
Algy’s elder brother! Then I have a brother after all. I knew I had a
and improve your mind. My father will be only too happy to give you a
Rev. Canon Chasuble, D.D.
skeletal. There were also a small deer and a large dog in about the
memory of the scene!
GWENDOLEN.
factory movement proved short-lived. Oldest of all are the great
That was the document I read, and now I have placed it in the tin box
deepened into amethyst, and across them came a mist of tears. He felt
After they had gone he felt lonely, and began to tire of his lady-love.
and on the other side of the earth poets and artists had begun to
Votre beauté m’a troublé.
IOKANAAN.  N’avez-vous pas peur, fille d’Hérodias?  Ne vous ai-je pas dit
the _Arkham Advertiser_ was a facetious little item from the Associated
a sudden thought of the mad wife, and he changed his line of inquiry.
perfume as if it had been wine. He came close to him and put his hand
existence, through her being what she is--partly an ideal and partly an
Narborough’s drawing-room by bowing servants. His forehead was
what might have happened, he overcame his fears and paid the Gardner
in art the mood of rebellion closes up the channels of the soul, and
Everything belonging to him had been destroyed. He himself had burned
would be of any convenience to you.
iron-barred window beneath which one sits is grey and niggard.  It is
CECILY.
Miss Fairfax! I suppose one of the many good elderly women who are
exquisitely artistic workmanship. It represented a monster of vaguely
now that you have become some one else?
are protected in every language.
faint miasmal odour which clings about houses that have stood too long.
prisoners said it had always existed and always would exist, hidden in
if it were obtuse. So only Briden and Johansen reached the boat, and
"They didn't git him," he muttered in his heavy bass voice.
Oh! there is no use speculating on that subject. Divorces are made in
with a grave shake of the head.
[Illustration: "MAKING SATIRICAL REMARKS ON THE PHOTOGRAPHS"]
direction of the house.
Do you really keep a diary? I’d give anything to look at it.
UN ESCLAVE
“You were talking about yourself,” replied the Roman Candle.
There could be no question of poison, for all the cases occurred in a
reputation for respectability, you have merely to take them down to
poets have killed it.  They wrote so much about it that nobody believed
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Are you quite sure?
host adieu and took a train for San Francisco. In less than a month
five minutes.
hed into the water.
rd about it. I was very nearly offering a large reward.
LADY WINDERMERE.  Must?
the stars, had awaked to claim his own. The stars were right again, and
in substance, both the Eskimo wizards and the Louisiana swamp-priests
country; and surely the very look of the dark realm is enough to stir
antiphonal responses to the ritual from some far and unillumined spot
so long.
ALGERNON.
THE SCENES OF THE PLAY
you understand now, don’t you?”
then to proceed to the room occupied by the United States Minister and
no such acoustic perversions. Rather would one have said they came
immediately, so Ammi had to wait trembling while pail after pail of
complete fulfilment.
Dark, frail, and somewhat unkempt in aspect, he turned languidly at my
LORD GORING.  Quite dreadful!
that seemed never to leave him, were in themselves a sufficient answer
Algy, you always adopt a strictly immoral attitude towards life. You
myself, I don’t care.  The only thing that sustains one through life is
ought it was the husbands who were
remind me of the day I saw you first. You were rather cheeky, very shy,
he did remains to be seen, for I have learned much now.
a dire future from visions he has seen. A dispatch from California
She wept silently, and made no answer, but crept nearer. Her little
great friends, he ceased to be a great artist. What was it separated
Kropotkin: both of them men who have passed years in prison: the first,
of him as the grey, twisted, brittle monstrosity which persists more
persist in believing the remains Caucasian.
IOKANAAN.  Arrière!  Fille de Babylone!  N’approchez pas de l’élu du
miniature she kisses every night before she prays—It’s the miniature of a
jewelled gloves reaching to the elbow, and had a hawk-glove sewn with
laughing maniac by his side. He did not try to navigate after the first
fastening itself on her that ought not to be--someone must make it
too. You never open your lips while you are painting, and it is
Dorian, pray,” he murmured. “What is it that one was taught to say in
LORD GORING.  What else is there to live for, father?  Nothing ages like
or grow mad. There were sins whose fascination was more in the memory
best cooks, dining with the Tories and thinking with the Liberals, in
went into the well after it had done with poor Nahum....
has been kind to me.
LADY WINDERMERE.  My husband—what has _he_ got to do with any woman of
resources of his own library, and wading night after night amidst the
healthy nor decent place. The whippoorwills an' fireflies there never
"Have you ever read the old prophecy on the library window?"
He was amazed at the sudden impression that his words had produced,
thickly covered with coarse black fur, and from the abdomen a score of
reminiscent of any work of art_.  _But she is really like a Tanagra
Basil Hallward had said to him with such infamy of insult. He bit his
and which for that reason was all the more dominant within him. He was
together! Don’t leave me, Basil, and don’t quarrel with me. I am what I
walked or lumbered about. He at no time fully described this object,
Canterville, "since my grandaunt, the Dowager Duchess of Bolton, was
white eyebrows.
showed no signs of ceasing its development.
is he? Point him out.
the kettle.”
prophète.
LORD GORING.  Oh, why will parents always appear at the wrong time?  Some
influence: a suggestion of what one might become as well as a real help
metaphorically.—My metaphor was drawn from bees. Ahem! Mr. Worthing, I
he thought the center lay amid the pathless deserts of Arabia, where
Ah! in what a monstrous moment of pride and passion he had prayed that
*       *       *       *       *
have.  Mine is my mother.
ALGERNON.
arms, and sometimes lapsing into an inane titter or a whisper about
rosary of three hundred and four pearls, one for every god that he
felt that it was a door because of the ornate lintel, threshold, and
LADY BRACKNELL.
in the Whateley farmhouse. Wilbur was closing all the doors and windows
JACK.
the first time I have come here.
mind that. When the picture was finished, and I sat alone with it, I
“Paradoxes are all very well in their way....” rejoined the baronet.
exactly why. Perhaps one reason--though it can not apply to uninformed
am firm.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  When?  When we were engaged?  Do you think she
Oh, I’m a little anxious about poor Bunbury, that is all.
as if some vital element of perspective or chiaroscuro were awry. I did
with some subtlety to draw him out.
pain. There is a luxury in self-reproach.
knock and asked me my business without rising. When I told him who I
As the rest of the watchers on that tempestuous hill had stolidly set
allowed them to camp in his
bites induced a lasting disgust. It was the same with the melons and
masonry which
he oddly said, was _all wrong_--and hear
elder mystery. It was morning when I saw it, but shadow lurked always
_about twenty-seven years of age_.  _She receives the guests as they come
his cell, but also the painter to whom the world is a pageant
power, by you. You became to me the visible incarnation of that unseen
for that!
went into the well after it had done with poor Nahum....
_Voilà tout_.
and thanked Heaven that most of the other crops were in the upland lot
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Non, Seigneur.
The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the
[_Exit_ ROSALIE.]
the spot where he had first laid eyes on the grisly phantom, feeling
f you for smoking
the top o' Sentinel Hill...."
ALGERNON.
MARCHMONT _and_ LADY BASILDON, _two very pretty women_, _are seated
further assistance. All traces of strange dreaming had vanished with
carved ivories, exquisite surroundings, luxury, pomp—there is much to
you despise me for what I have told you?
[_Enter_ LORD WINDERMERE.]
Augustus has been dining with us to-night.  I really have had quite
heavy manacles and rusty
I think it would be an admirable opportunity. And to spare you any
he showed some trace of the pride later noticed in his daughter, and
never to think of yourself, and you are looking so tired.
make one do anything she wants.  How, I don’t know.
[Interposing.] Miss Prism, Lady Bracknell, has been for the last three
protection. However, one night, while the family were at dinner, he
listening, though not for any sound which they could consciously
about them, in which the dark fears of rustics were held up to polite
you my life will be quite ruined unless they send John at once to the
the staircase and illumines the tapestry of the Triumph of Love_.]
of ruthlessness brought against his party during the proceedings of the
to the editor of a paper in South America, where a fanatic deduces
delight in that! What matter what the cost was? One could never pay too
It had pleased her. Of the threat she said nothing. It was vividly and
think, a very dance of blossoms in blue skies.”
had snapped in their brains, and each one had to be shot for its own
Such, at any rate, was Dorian Gray’s opinion.
have had a year longer of imprisonment, but humanity has been in the
was nothing of this earth, but a piece of the great outside; and as
make it, if not right, at least possible to be borne without too much
widow that my connection with her husband's "technical matters" was
his pocket; “his painting had quite gone off. It seemed to me to have
Do take the screen away, Dorian. It is simply
came convinced of his absolute sincerity, for he
entirely away, or tells one everything about them except what one wants
you passed me.
there, looking at the burning logs with their frostlike ashes and their
Tavern, Hoxton Road, by Mr. Danby, the District Coroner, on the body of
[LADY WINDERMERE _is at table R._, _arranging roses in a blue bowl_.]
writing-table he scribbled a note to Lord Henry, asking him to send him
that there was a great deal to be said for the invention, and, to a
raiment in wrath, and the magistrate of civil justice calling for water
any healthy New England wood. There was too much silence in the dim
moment. At the time when Miss Prism left me in the hand-bag, had I been
into a mirror after he had done some dreadful thing.
faint glow of the vegetation began and the trees may or may not have
trying to read the great odorous books which her father had inherited
fresh.
you had no heart, no pity in you. It is all Harry’s influence.
_has_ she to do with me?
with both sets of reporters and camera men, and called their attention
it?
and began to read it on the London boat.
one of the hands, as though the canvas had sweated blood? How horrible
fait rien.  Je suis heureux ce soir.  Je suis très heureux.  Jamais je
generous.’”
and not a little of contempt.
It is not so common, nowadays, as
that face with the red eyes an' crinkly albino hair, an' no chin, like
h storm.  Hush! I hear my wife’s voice.
her; Mrs. Erlynne, a pushing nobody, with a delightful lisp and
genius, and to waste an eternal youth gave me a curious joy.  Tired of
confided to me that all the dramatic critics were in a conspiracy
the bottom floor ain't through, but is all covered with a kind o'
I think your frankness does you great credit, Ernest. If you will allow
mysterious circumstances. His body has never been discovered, but his
mock sadness.
JACK.
round.] No, the side view is what I want.
success his talent promises.
Morning-room in Algernon’s flat in Half-Moon Street.
think that on the very day of my leaving prison both the laburnum and the
and even whimpering hysterically. Someone in the lead began sobbing out
g to grasp with its long fleshless fingers
My dear Mrs. Cheveley, what do you mean?
il est possible que Dieu soit pour lui et avec lui.  Aussi peut-être que
Never mingling much with his kind, he had dropped gradually from social
and though apparently deserted, was found upon boarding to contain
respectable language, and indeed, I believe is so. Gwendolen, you will
“My roses are yellow,” it answered; “as yellow as the hair of the
wings.
LADY MARKBY.  [_Nodding her head_.]  And very becoming, I am quite sure.
like titan fantasms beyond all spheres of force and matter, space and
curves of certain lines, in the loveliness and subtleties of certain
devil.”
The speaker panted into silence, but another took up his message.
r.
I bore up against everything with some stubbornness of will and much
Winter came early, and was very cold. Ammi saw Nahum less often than
LADY BRACKNELL.
Ahem! Ahem! Lady Bracknell!
in combating insects; whilst Morgan uncased the big-game rifle on which
so amused at?
“Poor Lady Brandon!
five minutes. Then the curtain rises, and you will see the girl to whom
to collate the two
[_To_ MRS. ERLYNNE.]  Oh!  What am I to say to you?  You saved me last
perfume of the pink-flowering thorn.
_kindly_, _popular woman_, _with gray hair à la marquise and good lace_.
he heard the Miller’s voice calling to him from the road.  So he jumped
he averred, as he had never before smelt in all his life except near
crackle out a final answer.
“I am afraid I must be going,” exclaimed Lady Henry, breaking an
present mood seems to be one peculiarly secular, I will return to the
[_Enter_ MASON.]
hand-bag?
relations as soon as possible, and to make a definite effort to produce
It is much pleasanter being here with you.
anything about.
servant. Lord Henry passed up the low arcade into Burlington Street and
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Good evening, Lady Windermere.
faint glow of the vegetation began and the trees may or may not have
have nothing whatever to do.”
on the mountains. Dunwich folk read the stories when they appeared, and
is the use of sending you to school.  You seem not to learn anything.
ere had come to New Orleans police a frantic
sleep in his chair, and did not wake up till it was broad daylight.
round. I had thrown her some flowers, and she had looked at me—at least
such eldritch contradictions of all matter, force, and cosmic order.
“You had better go home and put that pistol away, or you may get into
types--the archetypes are in us, and eternal. How else should the
really significant digest. Average people in society and business--New
most becoming we have.  They are the same as his lordship uses himself
an ostentatiously, eligible young man. He has nothing, but he looks
That Hallowe'en the hill noises sounded louder than ever, and fire
has lost all things, that one knows that one possesses it.
afraid, am I.
blasphemous-looking things that Nahum's oldest boy Zenas cut them down.
door. I swore I would kill you in return. For years I have sought you.
particular region. It must, I thought as I viewed it, be the outcome
took some blossoms to Arkham and showed them to the editor of the
[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
PHIPPS, Lord Goring’s Servant
her this evening.  But I suppose when sinners talk to saints they are
slopes for myself, and ceased to wonder at anything besides its own
before the portrait wondering at its beauty, almost enamoured of it, as
the vegetation, grass, leaves, and blossoms alike, while at one moment
fool I am—knows it as well as I do myself.
n. Now you shall look on it face to face.”
that is all!
and of those unhallowed blasphemies from elder stars which dream
names to any one. It is like surrendering a part of them. I have grown
[_Speaking to_ LORD WINDERMERE.]  Arthur, if that woman comes here—I warn
the sort of thing one tells to a nice, sweet, refined girl. What
any man mention his brother. The subject seems distasteful to most men.
out, Ammi, it'll do suthin' more ... sucks the life out...."
showed a restraint and deliberateness highly peculiar in an infant,
ideas of aspect and contour are too closely bound up with the common
LORD WINDERMERE.
Selby, and that it had got mislaid or stolen on the way. You never got
strangle one itself.
He had not long survived his return, said his wife, for the doings at
*       *       *       *       *
front yard; but the wise men answered that stones do not shrink. Its
questioning Armitage about what he knew of the thing, and no reply
dares to do this because his house is so near the open fields and the
the ancient gold
This man, after recovering his senses, told an exceedingly strange
we are good, we are not always happy.”
hardly say.  But his violent language could be heard all over the house!
fille de Jaïre?
and affectionate then. You were the most unspoiled creature in the
non-human side of its ancestry. In the tentacles this was observable as
never came. Ugly roots and malignant hanging nooses of Spanish moss
nothin' at all, only jest the bendin' trees an' underbrush.
mist that hangs over the river—pale as the feet of the
whilst the hill noises rumbled faintly.
moved anomalously in a diagonal way, so that all the rules of matter
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Enfin, ils ne croient qu’aux choses qu’on ne peut pas
can.”
been tampered with and that the picture was still there. What if it
and well-nigh preternatural intelligence. He was, however, exceedingly
argument. I dislike arguments of any kind. They are always vulgar, and
put it, inspire us with the desire to do masterpieces and always
MABEL CHILTERN.  Gertrude, I wish you would speak to Tommy Trafford.
with a brooding fear he dared not even mention for many years to come.
when he meets it either in a man or a movement.
I was bored.”
story of piracy and slaughter. He is Gustaf Johansen, a Norwegian
representing a monster, of a form which only a diseased fancy could
no longer in art concerned with the type.  It is with the exception that
darkening the sun as it slunk away into the shrunken and gibbous sky
the Greek attitude.  They never chattered about sunsets, or discussed
taste: the Cantervilles have blue blood, for instance, the very bluest
and perspective seemed upset.
ago, too.  She was little more than a girl then.  She had been a wife for
light that creeps down through the thickly-muffled glass of the small
invulnerability. Ammi had difficulty in recalling all these things, but
of the huddled men, a sense of doom and abnormality.... It was no
in the spaces we know, but _between_ them. They walk serene and
mouth.”
a rational animal. It was the most premature definition ever given. Man
Found among the papers of the late Francis Wayland
with any one of her own rank? I suppose she will be married some day to
I didn’t think it polite to listen, sir.
still the same.”
I think my
“Those words mean nothing to me now.”
LORD GORING.  Yes.
and when Mr.
in every line of the mate's frightened description.
things
Uncle Jack’s brother, my cousin Ernest, my wicked cousin Ernest.
confession has strayed into my pocket.
le
well ... can't git away ... draws ye ... ye know summ'at's comin', but
with you in your house as a guest. I call it grotesque.
admitted that there was very little to examine.
mounting; though the twilight of the almost perpendicular wooded hill
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Show Mrs. Cheveley out.
The duchess is coming.”
wonder at the strange loveliness of the luxury in which he lived; and
white, for only a Nightingale’s heart’s-blood can crimson the heart of a
Having done this, he got up and went over to the window.
large, dark, almost Latin eyes to give him an air of quasi-adulthood
a year old.
only as "_Cthulhu_"; and all this in so stirring and horrible a
PHIPPS.  Yes, my lord.
marring of it than poor Harry has had. He may not have intended it, the
The first half of the principal manuscript told a very peculiar
dreadful houses and slinking in disguise into the foulest dens in
no explanations to Hartwell, but in his calmer moments spoke of the
I’ll speak to Bunbury, Aunt Augusta, if he is still conscious, and I
head, dragon body, scaly wings, and hieroglyphed pedestal, was
and demands for data.
evening, and the air was delicate with the scent of the pinewoods.
after incessant screamings to be saved from some escaped denizen of
life. That was enough.
At length they emerged on a muddy road to find the sun coming out.
They say the mental influences are very bad, too; numbers went queer in
helped to make the place popular. Isolated among strange influences,
for a religious subject, Mr. Gray.”
JACK.
LORD GORING.  Well, the fact is, father, this is not my day for talking
lived in a tiny cottage all by himself, and every day he worked in his
origin of your wealth and your career, and I have got your letter, too.
went out.
On Lammas Night, 1924, Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury was hastily summoned
stone--whose _geometry_, he oddly said, was _all wrong_--and hear
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Princesse, je ne peux pas, je ne peux pas.
“You are talking scandal, Harry, and there is never any basis for
was over Nahum got the mad notion that she was slightly luminous in the
pointing out to them that though they were always reading the law and the
lay in wait for him on several occasions, and strewed the passages with
Weird Tales, February 1928.
ever know what the world has escaped. Now we've only this one
LORD CAVERSHAM.  What, sir?
the subject of my name is irrevocable, I suppose?
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Rising from the sofa_.]  Then, not at all!  [_A
“This broken lead heart will not melt in the furnace.  We must throw it
endless message in repetitions timed diabolically to the wheezing gasps
smoking-room of the Churchill, the Duke of Berwick and another
comes back the real life that we had known. We have to resume it where
coins, and Japanese _Foukousas_,
* * * * *
sunstone, and the moonstone’s pearly whiteness, and the broken rainbow
schooner began to sink from shots beneath the waterline they managed
and clutched the paper containing the alternative ones he had not
point-blank to advance another inch toward the scene of unholy
began moving his books and effects out to them. Soon afterward Earl
bishop says to the kneeling boy, 'Is not He who made misery wiser than
have fallen on the rough towel that one uses as a cloth so as not to soil
Don’t frown. You have.
her brothers to starve me to death, though I did kill her."
found out.
ALGERNON.
I have since found highly characteristic of him. He said, "It is new,
by_ LORD AUGUSTUS.]
Le sein de perles ruisselant,
MRS. MARCHMONT.  Then I will watch some one else.
*       *       *       *       *
had frequently been resorted to by the heads of prominent museums; so
never useful.  We have certain accomplishments, and that is more than
rising to go.
probably due to excitement or exposure.
“‘I have no doubt of it,’ answered the Miller, ‘but now that you have
began to be bad.
quivering every morning. They had, it developed, nearly lost the spirit
another moment horse and buggy had gone beyond earshot, leaving the
To speak frankly, I am not in favour of long engagements. They give
both suffered from the grey brittle death. Why was everything so grey
the echo she could win. After some time she became silent. Suddenly she
beneath forgotten sea-bottoms. But of them old Castro dared not speak
ever read. It seemed to him that in exquisite raiment, and to the
shrivelled or compressed, and atrocious collapses or disintegrations
sensations that seem stronger than themselves, and that they are
CECIL GRAHAM.  [_Puts his hands on his shoulders_.]  Now, Tuppy, you’ve
French _esprit_ when she could get it.
_outstretched_, _seem to tremble in the air like blossoms in the wind_.
LADY CHILTERN.  Who is that?
“I am waiting,” he cried. “Do come in. The light is quite perfect, and
and he and the boys were in a constant state of nervous tension.
being no cucumbers,
It is very strange. This Mr. Bunbury seems to suffer from curiously bad
close against the hill; and no one could imagine why a cleated wooden
PHIPPS.  Yes, madam.
LORD GORING.  What reason have you for saying that?
being immeasurably the stronger during the period of the sculptor's
questioning at the police station, and in the end Ammi was compelled
things, and nothing gave him greater pleasure than to listen to all the
tes paupières, Iokanaan.  Pourquoi ne me regardes-tu pas?  As-tu peur de
county, telling them to look out for a little girl who had been
further assistance. All traces of strange dreaming had vanished with
HÉRODIAS.  Ma fille et moi, nous descendons d’une race royale.  Quant à
rhythmical crescendoes of unholy anticipation.
give reasons for avoiding the locality. In our sensible age--since
a kind of growth or nourishment even now. But whatever demon hatchling
unnatural sparks and substance; blurring the glance of the few who saw
of ruthlessness brought against his party during the proceedings of the
“I wish I had, for as sure as there is a God in heaven, if he ever does
and I may marry some one else, and marry often, nothing that she can
generally attributed to the Indians than to the settlers. Deposits of
moved, and there was no wind. It must be the sap. Strangeness had come
wait till she is thirty-five—a remark which I am bound to say seems to
was infused by a Jewish doctor; Sigismondo Malatesta, the lover of
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  En effet, princesse, il vaudrait mieux retourner au
LORD GORING.
JACK.
friendship never notices things like that.  Pray get it at once, and I
Experience. Odd Idol Found in His Possession. Inquiry to Follow.
is not reassuring to see, on a closer glance, that most of the houses
and the world's welfare at heart--people shun it without knowing
puzzled as did this fraction. It is well that no explanation shall ever
happiness of more than one life
Why do I remember now the one moment of my life I most wish to forget?
churchyard groan, just as the twins had come up to him
you are never to see her again.
Dorian Gray turned slowly around and looked at him with tear-dimmed
matter in any sense we know. It was like its father--and most of it has
usual to take the baby out in its perambulator. I had also with me a
On a heap of sacking in the far corner was lying the dead body of a man
instance, you are quite astray. I like the duchess very much, but I
[Rather shy and confidingly.] Dearest Gwendolen, there is no reason why
blasphemously stupendous bulk of the horror; whilst the conformation
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN, Bart., Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs
through centuries. The name "blasted heath" seemed to me very odd
But I am afraid I shall never have such beautiful ideas as you have.’
LADY BASILDON.  [_Coldly_.]  I never take supper, thank you, Vicomte.
He had
lace and scarlet,
babbler on the couch, he took the keys from their nail beside the door
incessant beating far within the black haunted woods where no dweller
people like yourself.
such demmed indifference.  She’s deuced clever, too!  She explains
luxury and gorgeous splendour of his mode of life, he would suddenly
and in such abundance that extra barrels were ordered to handle the
in Dorian Gray the true realization of a type of which they had often
s. Even the Providence Art Club, anxious to preserve its
down. The scenery, judged by any ordinary esthetic canon, is more
De contempler mon corps et mon coeur sans degout.'
artists have to show ourselves in society from time to time, just to
characteristic of the anatomy and habits of squirrels and rabbits and
disulphide and a dozen others; but although the weight grew steadily
feeling, with the artistic nature of one to whom suffering and sorrow
LORD GORING.  My dear father, only people who look dull ever get into the
heart doesn’t suit me, Windermere.  Somehow it doesn’t go with
Potter's general store at Clark's Corners. Stephen Rice had driven past
“Twenty-seven, I believe. It is on the grand tier. You will see her
is indeed profound and authentic. He will, I believe, be heard from
SALOMÉ.  La tête d’Iokanaan.
sleep none.
the real culture of the scholar with all the grace and distinction an
I don’t think I like you at all this evening!
[Picture: Decorative graphic of young man kissing the princess’ hand]
of nerves. The officials devised excuses not to enter the noisome
not like to have much earth brain. Shot Elam Hutchins's collie
was not all. There had been another sound out there. A sort of liquid
And the Tree cried to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn.
reticences—he understood them all now, and he felt sorry. There seemed
colour, the beauty, the joy of life. The less said about life’s sores,
phrase flung into the air by shrill hysterical lips—it was really very
[Drawing herself up.] Your guardian enjoys the best of health, and his
the Mayfair balls and Pall Mall club windows, who copied him in
them citations from theosophical books and magazines (notably W.
now.”
a nervous little pop. Nothing was
les yeux des pigeons, et des topazes vertes comme les yeux des chats.
“You have been trifling with me,” he cried.  “I am off to the Pyramids.
Fortunately for him she had on the other side Lord Faudel, a most
half-caste, in a ragged turban and a shabby ulster, grinned a hideous
my unfortunate brother. Miss Prism, my unfortunate brother. Gwendolen,
IOKANAAN.  Arrière!  Fille de Babylone!  N’approchez pas de l’élu du
ned on his cheeks. He was terribly excited.
After we had all been resigned to his loss, his sudden return seems to
stupefying identity of the colossal statues and bas-reliefs with the
place is not good for imagination, and does not bring restful dreams at
was now the only person who ever visited the place, and his visits
“Yes—Harden. You must go down to Richmond at once, see Harden
what strange heavens they were suffering, and what dull hells were
DUMBY.  Awfully commercial, women nowadays.  Our grandmothers threw their
bachelor without the tears coming into my eyes.”
took some blossoms to Arkham and showed them to the editor of the
moment. “I am not at home to any one, Victor,” he said with a sigh. The
a moment and looks him straight in the face_.  _She then goes out_,
authorities in the country and met with no more than the Greenland tale
the card.
undeceive him. Indeed I have never undeceived him on any question. I
like your art better than your friends. I am no more to you than a
everything. At the end he felt faint and sick, and having lit some
was not all. There had been another sound out there. A sort of liquid
dark. After a time, he went away and stood in an adjoining portico and
patterned with curved waves, and the silken cords hung with round
smell like he smelt when he faound the
own hands the terrible portrait whose changing features showed him the
there, mostly primitive but good-natured descendants of Lafitte's men,
creature with spectacles and lank hair, horribly freckled, and tramping
Lady Bloxham. Of course, I can get it back whenever I like, at six
[Illustration: "THE GHOST GLIDED ON MORE SWIFTLY"]
swiftness and motion.
that name is merely prose.
LADY WINDERMERE.  I am not sure of that!
of us is here for. People are afraid of themselves, nowadays. They have
sane or of this earth. But then, the homes and sheds of Dunwich folk
As the chime struck one, Campbell turned round, and looking at Dorian
medallions of many saints and martyrs, among whom was St. Sebastian. He
art there was but little place, hardly enough for them to grow or play
that if she comes here once she will have a chance of a happier, a surer
JACK.
here,” shouted the Watchman, and they wandered out into the rain.
appurtenances of idle luxury. I am also informed by Mrs. Otis, who, I
case.
property; for it had "drawn the lightning," as Nahum said, with a
Don’t tell me that.”
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _goes out_.  LORD GORING _rushes to the door of the
had aroused them in the night, and their neighing and kicking in their
e a humorous article
ALGERNON.
in the shape of a servant to tell the duchess that her carriage was
astonishing courage of innocence_.  _To sane people she is not
worthy man.
On the morning of September fourth Professor Rice and Dr. Morgan
I feel like a man on a ship that is sinking.  The water is round my feet,
are!
“You certainly are!” cried the Bengal Light.  “In fact, you are the most
and though apparently deserted, was found upon boarding to contain
words, and the Arkham men started violently when those words developed
caught a glimpse of golden hair and laughing lips, and in an open
half-chocked with caved-in earth. Digging had borne no fruit, and the
others, where the unknown colour had melted into the Milky Way. But his
is here ... one o' them professors said so ... he was right ... look
arrange, in apparently careful order, all the rotting ancient books and
consulted several books of ancient chivalry, of which he was
Harry’s views from his friends. It is the only way I get to know of
JACK.
e a humorous article
“Ah! but you don’t like being kissed, Jim,” she cried. “You are a
afternoon at five-thirty.  I am sure she adores scandals, and that the
dark, as he now clearly saw was the case with the nearby vegetation.
in giving such a being the key to such blasphemous outer spheres.
of the horrors that lurk ceaselessly behind life in time and in space,
magnetic, for one thing; and after its immersion in the acid solvents
The studio was filled with the rich odour of roses, and when the light
mantel, and infected the very doors and furniture. Each minute saw it
ned of the cult, of a sensitive young man
twilight he hastened home, the screams of the mad woman and the nervous
LORD AUGUSTUS.  Ah! if you find charms in me, Mrs. Erlynne—
room with them. In the absence of the lamplight it was clear that a
again. But that can’t be helped. I quite understand what you feel about
red glare and the muffled tom-toms. There are vocal qualities peculiar
from noting strange parallelisms and drawing mystified conclusions.
"That's quite absurd! You have merely to go to bed and blow out the
HÉRODE.  J’ai juré, Salomé.
Caversham is quite well?
_Drawing-room in Lord Windermere’s house_.  _Door R.U. opening into
gesture of passion_, _tears it up_.]
DUMBY.  Yes; dear Windermere is becoming almost modern.  Never thought he
of all hands for the shore; and it was the work of only a few moments
s, the unknown disease of livestock and
it was a rough parallel in all essential features of the bestial thing
against him, my son. He was your father, and a gentleman. Indeed, he
now.  And so, last night you ruined my life for me—yes, ruined it!  What
Your guardian has a very emotional nature.
a horse. Every person in that low-pitched sitting-room stopped his
a woman’s life.  The fact that her past is always her lover, and her
followed by a hideous screaming and stamping amongst the cattle. The
favour of a large slouched hat with a red feather, a winding-sheet
seen it this last week. It must be somethin' from away off in the sky
complete edition_, an' _then_ put a match to the prison. Fire from
LORD DARLINGTON.  And you would take him back!  You are not what I
I suppose that only a single mountain-top, the hideous monolith-crowned
punished enough.
SALOMÉ.  Je suis prête, tétrarque.
Besides, each time that one loves is the only time one has ever loved.
picture something curious?—something that probably at first did not
Oh yes.
Gardner's in the morning, and had noticed the skunk-cabbages coming
“I don’t understand you,” answered the Water-rat.
the normal adult limit, seemed inclined to wax beyond that figure. In
inquiries at his quarters revealed that he had been stricken with an
republicans of the family.
addressing herself exclusively to_ LORD CAVERSHAM.]  And Lady Caversham’s
the day, and I acted on it.  Private information is practically the
It was in the dark of September ninth that the horror broke loose.
evasively muttered. I could not, however, get any good answers, except
Besides, was it really under his control? Had it indeed been prayer
was a thick fetid deposit of the same tarry stickiness
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma.
began to be bad.
“Well, ask Mr. Gray. He is one of her most intimate friends.”
in substance, both the Eskimo wizards and the Louisiana swamp-priests
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  That is a hard saying, Gertrude!
with several students of archaic lore in Boston, and letters to many
At their age? The idea is grotesque and irreligious! Algernon, I forbid
[_A look of triumph comes over her face_.  _She is just about to steal
with Arabella this evening!  By Jove! you should have heard what she said
ALGERNON.
doctor put him to bed he could only mutter over and over again, "_But
Meanwhile Old Whateley continued to buy cattle without measurably
her neck, and kissed her.
My nephew, you seem to be displaying signs of triviality.
Morgan, whose sight was keener. After a moment of gazing Morgan cried
one write and claim it, let me know at once.
last night.
and jests he sees a chance of
suffered, and for a moment the same curious feeling of loathing for
“Ah! don’t remind me of that,” cried Dorian Gray.
th in Arkham. He was
in the spaces between the purple rings. Of genuine blood there was
notes had not sudden death seized him.
Good-bye, Margaret.  [_Exit_.]
threshold, I shall strike her across the face with it.
was a woman more sinned against than sinning, as the phrase goes.  I
who had _dreamed_ not only the figure and exact hieroglyph
music.  It sounded so sweet to his ears that he thought it must be the
I have been going about for the last six months telling the whole of
whippoorwills which seemed to be assembled near the unlighted Whateley
tu as été le seul homme que j’ai aimé.  Tous les autres hommes
Cecily, you have lifted a load from my mind. I was growing almost
moving thing was left in that attic room, and that to leave anything
unrecognizable chromaticism.
DUMBY.  Then Mrs. Erlynne sets an admirable example to the rest of her
As the thought crept through his brain, he grew pale with terror, and
ouching. Our eyes met again.
and goodness. He himself could not help wondering at the calm of his
there was no change in the solvents to show that they had attacked
does. That’s his.
life. Whether or not a quarrel had taken place between them no one ever
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Nervously_.]  Do what I tell you.  Do what I tell you.
CHASUBLE.
specimens that he could find of textile and embroidered work, getting
trapped by the sinking whilst within his black abyss, or else the world
oneself. Now, the value of an idea has nothing whatsoever to do with
When I went into the hills and vales to survey for the new reservoir
have always insisted on living on, long
once. All the candour of youth was there, as well as all youth’s
one but Ammi to question; for Arkham people will not talk about the
which was the nearest to him geographically.
corruption to corruption, and now you have culminated in crime. In
tragic it would be if you were wasted. For there is such a little time
ripened, and Nahum vowed that his orchards were prospering as never
whole attitude was one of extreme depression. Indeed, so forlorn, and so
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Who could have advised you to do such a foolish
cloth, and plate stand. Cecily is about to retort. The presence of the
In the open spaces, mostly along the line of the old road, there were
the _indisputably English_ syllables that had poured thickly and
below had come a voice that was not a voice; a chaotic sensation which
LORD GORING.  Really?
real to him. Things of which he had never dreamed were gradually
and Zenas were both there, in part, though the vestiges were mainly
pulling his grey moustache now and then to hide an involuntary smile,
downstairs.
right to use any weapon I can find, have I not?
lying, smoking, as was his custom, innumerable cigarettes, Lord Henry
did.
he lined with tall, firm shelving; along which he began gradually to
extraordinarily handsome.
the writer from what Matthew Arnold calls 'the Secret of Jesus.'  Either
with the eyes or hear with the ears.  They are really channels for the
all the information about it at the Foreign Office.
broken off at least once. But I forgave you before the week was out.
beyond all Nature as we know it; from realms whose mere existence stuns
the shrill intrusive light, was sitting in the one arm-chair that their
three or four might well be proud. The boy was not talkative, yet when
round the old sun-dial, and perhaps he will give you what you want.”
are talking about. You are simply jealous and unkind. Ah! I wish you
exceedingly fond, and found that, on every occasion on which this oath
instant start on an investigation of the utmost thoroughness was
“Of course it is true, Lord Henry. If we women did not love you for
of strength in the old man to enable him to accomplish so much hard
be furious. I don’t care. I shall be of age in less than a year, and
said little Hans, rubbing his eyes and pulling off
torturing myself do really and sincerely say, 'What a beginning, what a
I would strongly advise you, Mr.
yourself too much. We are both punished.”
and begged them to see him inside his own kitchen, instead of
about Mrs. Erlynne.  Egad!  I might be married to her; she treats me with
Prince Charming, my wonderful lover, my god of graces. But I am poor
himself would ever be so dominated by the personality of a friend. Lord
again?
cult around small
you could not do. The world belongs to you for a season.... The moment
been so weak, Robert, as to yield to such a temptation as Baron Arnheim
Armitage, having read the hideous diary, knew painfully well what kind
whose recurring _motifs_ make _Salome_ so like a piece of music and bind
any single thing.
meat was of course useless, and Nahum was at his wit's end. No rural
art is the fulfilment of a prophecy: for every work of art is the
such an experience. It would have made me in love with love for the
starlit mill-pond, with lovely water-lilies round her, like Ophelia?”
s the leaves of the bitter
tenebris...._ The old librarian rehearsed the formulæ he had memorized,
call either the lethargy of custom or their lack of imagination.
to view a frightened group of more than a dozen men, running, shouting,
more improving than yours.  I am only going to talk to Lord Caversham in
“It is the face of my soul.”
whispered that bat-winged devils flew up out of caverns in inner
vous avez peur de lui.
every second as the _Alert_ gained impetus from its mounting steam.
me pray that, if I do not survive this manuscript, my executors may put
me to her wheel I had written in _The Soul of Man_ that he who would lead
LANE.
treatises, and suc
LORD GORING.  I did wait.
should.  And the rest of your life you could spend in contemplating your
the delight I really felt at our meeting.
with a napkin, motioned to his servant to wait, and going over to the
be a magnificent sight.  As for domesticity, it ages one rapidly, and
wider scope, greater ambitions.  A woman’s life revolves in curves of
afterward--such a scream as could come from no being born of earth, or
MABEL CHILTERN.  You silly Arthur!  If you knew anything about . . .
the vegetation, grass, leaves, and blossoms alike, while at one moment
arm, there was not a prouder man in the whole length and breadth of
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_With infinite contempt in her voice and look_.]  How
Yog-Sothoth with the long chant that ye'll find on page 751 _of the
leeringly in those crazily elusive angles of carven rock where a second
like a elephant had ben along, _only they's a sight more nor four feet
She says the hired boy Luther was aout drivin' in the caows from the
the Duke for one of her seven unmarried daughters, and had given no less
was then convinced that young Wilcox had known of the older matters
delicate sound of flutes, the sins of the world were passing in dumb
“I believe he is in love,” cried Lady Narborough, “and that he is
He got up from his chair and drew a large screen right in front of the
of curiosity, and her subsequent tales did justice to her observations;
it away, if you like.  That makes it all the more bitter.  Misfortunes
Hallward laid his hand upon his arm. “Don’t, Harry. You have annoyed
sin, folly.  And then suddenly—Oh!  Life is terrible.  It rules us, we do
and the
tri-dimensional earth--rushed fetid and horrible through New England's
depths was intolerable, and at length the quick-eared Hawkins thought
trooped out again in a great excitement. As they passed Ammi's they
great effect, and which he considered quite equal to his famous part of
these are all vacant now, the wide chimneys crumbling and the shingled
GWENDOLEN.
that! not that!
you marry me, I will give you Robert Chiltern’s letter.  That is my
an iron clasp, was in another unknown alphabet--this one of a very
concerning the other side of whose ancestry the country folk might--and
LORD WINDERMERE.
Yes, that letter.  I didn’t go to Lord Goring’s, after all.  I felt that
pulled desperately for the _Alert_ as the mountainous monstrosity
withered cheek and warmed its frost.
him.
some form, is Christ, or the soul of Christ.  He is in _Romeo and
name. The listening was, indeed, rather a product of moments when
asking for nightly reports
MASON.  LADY CHILTERN _kneels down beside her husband_, _and puts her
words said with musical utterance, that Dorian Gray’s soul had turned
lightning strike the furrow in the front yard, and when the storm was
noir.  Il n’y a rien au monde d’aussi noir que tes cheveux . . .
some dreadful thing they use at theatres. I don’t know what it was, but
of the hypocrite.”
his play.”
and barn.
“They are more cunning than practical.
JACK.
the whole world.  What does your husband give you?  Nothing.  Whatever is
rain.  The newspapers wrote about his performance in very flattering
am so sorry I have been out the last three times you have called.
him he bore the subject of his visit, a grotesque, repulsive, and
THE King’s son was going to be married, so there were general rejoicings.
without affectation that the two great turning-points in my life were
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_In her sweetest manner_.]  Do you know, I am quite
gossips would not credit this. Certainly, however, restlessness was
sides bulging perilously beneath low gambrel roofs.
jack-boots, where it was found in the morning by the butler. Once in the
ruined for a fault done in one’s boyhood almost?
“His name is Prince Paradox,” said Dorian.
LORD GORING.  But I love Mabel.  No other woman has any place in my life.
CECIL GRAHAM.  What is the matter?
_Yog-Sothoth_. He knows where the Old Ones broke through of old,
he was now from the shy frightened boy he had met in Basil Hallward’s
him through some curious race-instinct for which he could not account,
Disloyalty would be as impossible to him as deception. But even men of
disordered life, the very vileness of thief and outcast, were more
with frightened expectancy the ceaseless, half-mental calli
s secret.  Arthur, you
“You had really better keep yourself dry,” said the Fire-balloon.  “That
bloodroots grew insolent in their chromatic perversion. Ammi and the
immense fortune.  Beyond that I can learn nothing.
fore her.
humanity is sometimes cruelly judged by the law. I gathered that no
LADY MARKBY.  [_Reflecting_.]  You are remarkably modern, Mabel.  A
have spoiled everything.”
marry her, you will have to clear up the whole question of Cecily.
brittle globule found imbedded in the stone from the abyss. The samples
this
LORD GORING.  Rather distinguished thing, Phipps.  I am the only person
obscure sort of fever and taken to the home of his family in Waterman
back to your husband’s house immediately.
dark courts on the precipitous hillside which formed a short cut from
Sir Thomas frowned. “I am afraid that your nephew is prejudiced against
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Yes.  I can’t bear so upright a gentleman, so honourable
“We don’t know,” answered the children; “he has gone away.”
CECIL GRAHAM.  Mrs. Erlynne has a very great respect for dear Tuppy.
aris. He will not be missed for months. When he is missed, there must
rendre les femmes stériles.  Ce sont des trésors de grande valeur.  Ce
like to be permitted to put to you. Where is your brother Ernest? We
lost consciousness for an instant, though he did not stumble or fall.
foreigners tried to live in the crumbling old homesteads. They could
extremely lonely, as the Miller never came to see him then.
ritan in me.  I was brought up like that.  I am glad of it.  My mother
from noting strange parallelisms and drawing mystified conclusions.
o a word I am saying, Jim,” cried Sibyl, “and I
regrets. When he closed his eyes, he saw again the sailor’s face
everything ... in that stone ... it must o' come in that stone ...
trod earth's fields, and where They still tread them, and why no
less thorough craftsman. His mania showed itself only in his tight
and pink-footed, the pigeons ran about picking up seeds.
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_L.C._]  Margaret, you are talking foolishly,
Corey.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Yes.
creature from a finer world. Her body swayed, while she danced, as a
by number, I should have attempted some corroboration and personal
wuss...."
different standpoint.
carbuncles of fiery scarlet with tremulous, four-rayed stars, flame-red
The painter turned to his servant, who stood blinking in the sunlight.
sex.
will join you later on. Don’t keep Dorian too long. I have never been
dream, a phantom that flitted through Shakespeare’s plays and left them
to go out into that black farmyard. The children and the women-folk
dishonoured.  We women worship when we love; and when we lose our
But at last he knew that he was going to die.  He had just strength to
man who treats you like this!  What sort of life would you have with him?
Tartuffe, and should rank with them.
of shame. Some love might come across his life, and purify him, and
there are no earth beings on it. He that came with the Aklo Sabaoth
ALGERNON.
That July and August were hot; and Nahum worked hard at his haying in
“I don’t think much of that,” said the Duck, “as I cannot see what use it
indeed, than genius, as it needs no explanation. It is of the great
to the queer stench which now seemed to trickle down from the sealed
LORD GORING.  With pleasure.  [_Puts her cloak on_.]
course, the wheelbarrow is worth far more than the plank, but true,
And what sort of lives do these people, who pose as being moral, lead
the British public are really not equal to the mental strain of having
name Tuppy gives to his mistakes.  That is all.  [LORD AUGUSTUS _looks
CHILTERN _and goes out_; _then comes running back_.]  Oh, Gertrude, do
the herd that grazed precariously on the steep hillside above the old
porte une tout à fait pareille quand il va au cirque.  Mais la mienne est
Harry, Mr. Gray is ill again. He is going to faint.”
the upper rud mighty nigh Seth's--a leetle t'other side."
been engaged for some years; Mrs. Otis organized a wonderful
then, his work was that curious mixture of bad painting and good
professor that it must be identical with the nameless monstrosity
Prince’s feet.
weird message from other universes and other realms of matter, force,
to him with added horror. Out of the black cave of time, terrible and
nothing more could be done that night, and that he would telegraph in
seemed laden with spices. A bee flew in and buzzed round the
who thoroughly understands one.
MRS. MARCHMONT.  Yes.  Horribly tedious parties they give, don’t they?
found out.
_Managers_: _Mr. Lewis Waller and Mr.
understand, Parker?
he had two bright sapphires, and a large red ruby glowed on his
too clever and too cynical to be really fond of. Would there ever be
not stay, though; and one sometimes wonders what insight beyond ours
there would never have been all this trouble. You won't send me back,
been
saying how extraordinary it was that, of all men in London, Windermere
found in one of the book-cases. The formal monotonous ticking of the
His luggage?
mare home, made his way towards his guest through the withered bracken
h maker
best wishes!  Oh! stop a moment.  There is no name at the beginning of
to look at his work from a distance. In the slanting beams that
pretty tough tussles sometimes."
prosternez-vous à ses pieds et demandez-lui la rémission de vos péchés.
fiction are the things that one has ceased to use in fact. Believe me,
brain,
style in which it was written was that curious jewelled style, vivid
is mentioned a dread of something abnormal.
“You said to me that Sibyl Vane represented to you all the heroines of
remains. I shall be glad to see the water come. Meanwhile I hope
h never arrives, whilst items from India
During the ensuing weeks Dr. Armitage set about to collect all possible
coloured marbles of a sonnet-sequence? But in our own century it was
Without knowing what futurism is like, Johansen achieved something
all the countryside. Trees, grass, and underbrush were whipped into a
Cable advices from Dunedin report that the _Alert_ was well known
tously
ASILDON.  [_Coldly_.]  I never take supper, thank you, Vicomte.
would give me greater pleasure.
like the men from the college last year says the meteor stone was.
des cadeaux de grande valeur.  Aussi il m’a promis de citer à Rome le roi
However, by taking great care of himself, he recovered, and resolved to
her presence and in yours I will explain all.
The _Emma's_ men showed fight, says the survivor, and though the
jest like the flowers last spring ... the well shone at night.... Thad
searched every corner of it!  What moves behind that curtain?  [_Rushes
Monday was a repetition of Sunday with Dr. Armitage, for the task
enough of dear Augustus for the moment.
He even thought a scream had been suddenly choked off, and recalled
CECILY.
Twilight had now fallen, and lanterns were brought from the house.
when she does find me out, she makes no row at all. I sometimes wish
with a brooding fear he dared not even mention for many years to come.
lest people should think him unpractical, which he really was not.
must have suffered more than he had. Poor child! He had been selfish
ice and Morgan, started to walk in the direction
“Something of a load to carry, sir,” gasped the little man when they
futile, ineffective gesture of loading muskets and setting pitchforks
was
figured with a repeating pattern of golden pomegranates set in
[_Enter_ PARKER _and_ FOOTMAN _C._, _with tray and tea things_.]
air, and that pillar of smoke from the valley far in the wood. And by
coloured and fantastic fragments as our universe must needs disown.
of the orgy fortunately deadened. Legrasse dashed swamp water on the
Yet it had to be done.
“You don’t understand her, Harry. She regarded me merely as a person in
that strange days are never talked about in Arkham.
but that of a child, in some little garden weeping over a fault that it
“We will go to sleep now,” they said, “and when we wake up the kettle
of the garden had its secrets for me also.  Of course all this is
to-night from the way I have always heard you talk?  Why are you changed?
not good enough for us. In art, as in politics, _les grandpères ont
indeed in English.
Amazing Stories September 1927.
looked as if they had been designed in a rage and put on in a tempest.
"Oh, oh, great Gawd ... _that ... that_...."
unguided into black arcades of horror that none of them had ever trod
object, the doctor added, was invariably a prelude to the young man's
JACK.
that the world held no rock like it. Then I thought with a shudder of
l’amour a une âcre saveur . . . Mais, qu’importe?  Qu’importe?  J’ai
brighter, bringing to the minds of the huddled men, a sense of doom and
and earth tremors of March 1st.
there I almost wish to kill myself forthwith. Johansen and his men were
in one of the sheds, and Sawyer thought he seemed unusually worried
sted a more indescribable horde of human abnormality than any but a
cried Dorian Gray; “and I don’t allow people to call me a silly boy.”
about him, and he had thoughtful, treacherous eyes. Sitting down at the
though only Gawd knows jest what it is.
of you!  It is in my possession.
LORD GORING.  [_Gravely_.]  Yes; you certainly paid a great price for it.
offered to take me behind the scenes and introduce me to her.
exposed with utter and relentless scorn.  To us, what is termed orthodoxy
subtly transformed him from an object to a subject of fear--though he
analysed, of course, so he busied himself in obtaining them--and here
and hue. Perhaps some mineral element from the stone had entered the
boy.  He was so small that he could not reach up to the branches of the
such as romance, passion, and love.”
CECILY.
whom Mrs. Otis, at Lady Canterville's earnest request, had
indeed, the whole book seemed to him to contain the story of his own
stood on the table. “It must be, if you say it. And now I am off.
hollowness, the sham, the silliness of the empty pageant in which I had
marriage—a game, by the way, that is going out of fashion—the wives hold
le Seigneur Dieu.  Voici le jour dont j’avais parlé.
professor stated, a very crude bas-relief of stone, comprising a
thing that he ever said had been, 'Her sins are forgiven her because she
announce me as a revelation. I feel it. And it is all his, his only,
a little time, and listen to the birds singing.  Do you know that I
stopped for to-day. It would not look well to go on.”
began to mumble without turning or raising its head. Dr.
HÉRODE.  Je ne suis pas malade.  C’est votre fille qui est malade.  Elle
nothing that stirs in the whole world of thought to which sorrow does not
were anywhere to be seen except in the green grass and leafage; but
unmistakable; yet not one link did it show with any known type of art
Armitage, now that he had actually come upon the horror and its
Be afraid of nothing.... A new Hedonism—that is what our century wants.
coarse bloated hands of the picture,
contempt for optimism. As for a spoiled life, no life is spoiled but
I do not approve
[_Exit_ PARKER.]
tell you how sorry I am for you, dear Margaret.  [_Crosses to sofa and
caused the _Boston Globe_ and _Arkham Advertiser_ to print flamboyant
lilac will be blooming in the gardens, and that I shall see the wind stir
ring of fire.
“‘Why, what a good heart you have!’ cried his Wife; ‘you are always
Lord Augustus Lorton
eyes. He shuddered. “I don’t think I can go in, Alan,” he murmured.
of France, his horse was loaded with gold leaves, according to
perhaps it is just as well that he acted as he did.
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Vous venez de quitter le festin, princesse?
door; but was always able to silence inquiry through fear or through
of mail. He had hoped that even modern Americans would be thrilled by
deaf.  Then he proposed to me in broad daylight this morning, in front of
sort of eternity of infamy, and sometimes seem to myself to have shown,
asked.
impressions of vast angles and stone surfaces--surfaces too great to
once more be ready for Them.
“Conscience and cowardice are really the same things, Basil. Conscience
And with strange eons even death may die."
itself into a perfect pearl. Huge carts filled with nodding lilies
LORD GORING.  In the case of very fascinating women, sex is a challenge,
clumsy in movement. He was not so finely bred as his sister. One would
deliberations. It came, apparently, from the barn; and was quickly
Irem, the City of Pillars, dreams hidden and untouched. It was not
perfectly cold and indifferent. It will be a great pity, for it will
hock-and-seltzer myself. There is sure to be some in the next room.”
But Johansen had not given out yet. Knowing that the Thing could
old Lord Bilton on her pony twice round the park, winning by a length
us.
into its polished depths. No line like that warped his red lips. What
nbeams; but this new glow was something definite and distinct, and
there seemed to be faint traces of the Widmänstätten figures found
hogshead, an' all sticky with stuff like is on the blowed-up haouse.
Old Castro remembered bits of hideous legend that paled the
GWENDOLEN.
d.
hearers years afterward.
LADY PLYMDALE.  My dear Margaret, what a handsome woman your husband has
happily in my garden. And to-night I am to dine with you, and then go
the buggy. That was the last of Hero till they buried him next day.
have done that is good, I owe to you. Ah! you don’t know what it cost
were awry. I did
picion would have entered your mind, I
soil, but it would soon be washed away. And as for the footprints and
rosary of three hundred and four pearls, one for every god that he
it ... it was that same colour ... jest the same, like the flowers an'
how I worship her!” He was walking up and down the room as he spoke.
monstrously carven portal. In this fantasy of prismatic distortion it
by Gertrude’s rudeness and sneers.  I called, oh!—a little out of malice
skulls and bones, found within these circles and around the sizable
By the way, have you tried her with money?  She used to be confoundedly
matter?”
saying, “Humbug! humbug!” at the top of their voices.  They were
astonishment at the pretty little girl who had ventured to address him,
rank water was hauled up and splashed on the soaking ground outside.
force that could bend trees and crush houses when it chose.
dark.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Quite seriously.  I want to talk to you about a great
*       *       *       *       *
not sorry for anything that has happened. It has taught me to know
Ugliness that had once been hateful to him because it made things real,
But we know _that_, dear Margaret, about _your_ house.  It is really one
up into his old withered face.
delightful to do that. Besides, it is no use. You and I are what we
and whispered on I shivered again and again despite the summer day.
ask Mr. Bunbury, from me, to be kind enough not to have a relapse on
hour I stood there in the grey November rain surrounded by a jeering mob.
They trailed off into nothingness as the whippoorwills shrieked in
That does not seem to me to be a grave objection. Thirty-five is a very
probable matricide, felt a wave of fright as tangible as a draft of the
interesting he was! The new manner in art, the fresh mode of looking at
head down, and grew quite scarlet, and began to cry into his tea.
was not the secret--that was never spoken aloud, only whispered. The
He was determined that he would not think about what had happened until
LORD DARLINGTON.  I do say it.  I feel it—I know it.
CURTAIN
to Cecily.] Kindly turn round, sweet child. [Cecily turns completely
possible.  You understand?
no longer lived, They would never really die. They all lay in stone
skeletal.
passions are for the great of soul, and great events can be seen only by
intend to be.  Love is all very well in its way, but friendship is much
swamp-found image and the Greenland devil tablet, but had come _in his
really know anything about her, and you’re always talking scandal against
virtually cut off from the world, and sometimes let Ammi do their
“Ah! that is very nice, and very wrong of you,” she cried; “so mind you
must have wealth.
profitless to me, philosophy barren, and the proverbs and phrases of
by H. P. LOVECRAFT
discovered--only a stench and a tarry stickiness. The Elmer Fryes had
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Eh?  Eh?  Don’t understand what you mean.  Want to have
old days the place must have been lonely and remote. And at twilight,
You know what I have got to say to you.
always been of opinion that hard work is simply the refuge of people who
with her, or says he is? Highly connected, too, I suppose.”
out of this house, with head erect, with a smile upon your lips, with
LORD DARLINGTON.  My life—my whole life.  Take it, and do with it what
country; and surely the very look of the dark realm is enough to stir
haff o' them that's left is sucked most dry o' blood, with sores on 'em
subjected to fasting and scourging, and the earthen jars of the
princesse de Judée.
me she had discovered a wonderful young man who was going to help her
at the terrible reality.
Christ.  At Christmas I managed to get hold of a Greek Testament, and
surprise to her.  Good-bye, Lady Markby!
I can't break through with the Dho-Hna formula when I commit it.
press cuttings, in Professor Angell's most recent hand; and made no
apparently very ancient stone statuette whose origin he was at a loss
I suppose so, if you want to.
Nahum, however, ignored the warning, for he had by that time become
somewhat old, but capacious hand-bag in which I had intended to place
you.
guide. At the end of the passable road they alighted, and for miles
two men’s eyes met. In Dorian’s there was infinite pity. He knew that
that one wishes they would keep their distance, but there is no road by
would do her so much good to have a short stroll with you in the Park,
or heard or handled, but because of something that is imagined. The
36 ESSEX STREET W.C.
on a character that according to his own brother’s admission is
unbeams of life—don’t commit crimes,
as much as those natural rebellions that wise men still call sin. The
untain-head.
itself, four monstrous sets of fragments--two from the house and two
Yes, sir. [Goes back into the house.]
or purple rings ... _an' Gawd in Heaven--that haff face on top_!..."
thing called common sense.
him_.]
as much of the subject as any man I had talked with in Arkham. He was
squirrels, white rabbits, and foxes, but the brooding farmer professed
it seemed to him at times. Was it to alter now with every mood to which
to loose them on the world whenever another earthquake shall heave
boarded place; and were glad to confine their survey of the deceased's
me but public disgrace, ruin, terrible shame, the mockery of the world, a
[SIR ROBERT CHILTERN _goes out_.  LORD GORING _rushes to the door of the
brother! I always said I had a brother! Cecily,—how could you have ever
Haardrada, which kept alive the name of Oslo during all the centuries
connect with the proper flora of the region. No sane wholesome colours
like the men from the college last year says the meteor stone was. The
self-development. To realize one’s nature perfectly—that is what each
shapes that seeped down from the dark stars. There lay great Cthulhu
Wasn’t he one of your men?”
sky was bright, and there was a genial warmth in the air. It was almost
if you have nothing better to do.
the medical examiner, and the veterinary who had treated the diseased
because what he sought was no longer there. It had come to meet him,
[Pulling off his gloves_._] When one is in town one amuses oneself.
for the pleasure of Athena? Where the huge velarium that Nero had
_A well-bred_, _expressionless face_.  _He is clever_, _but would not
much, or because he was likely to learn too much. Whether I shall go as
to him again, from the butler who had shot himself in the pantry because
than his own, save perhaps in certain special formulæ and incantations.
voice of love and found it as 'musical as Apollo's lute'; or that evil
voice.  I left the table as soon as I had my second cup of tea, I need
blasphemous-looking things that Nahum's oldest boy Zenas cut them down.
characteristic. Yes, Mr. Erskine, an absolutely reasonable people. I
stumbled against Lady Brandon. ‘You are not going to run away so soon,
leave romance to my seniors.
you, with your extraordinary good looks, will not be able to do.”
Merwin this time. He was gone. He had gone out late at night with a
subsidence into lethargy.
description. The fantastic character of these instruments fascinated
seemed to him that he had been walking in fire. Why had he not known
letters tied up with blue ribbon.]
the painter’s work, and all that that meant. It would kill the past,
if indeed it required showing, that between the famous and the infamous
that reminds me how hungry I feel”: and she swam away down the stream,
I have since found highly characteristic of him. He said, "It is new,
l that Baudelaire
years, and, indeed, may be said never to have left him.
“How horrid you are! She is all the great heroines of the world in one.
immoral—immoral from the scientific point of view.”
delirium.
accordance with Californian etiquette, to hold up his hands! The ghost
I am grieved to hear such sentiments from you, Mr. Worthing. They
“Good-bye, my son,” she answered with a bow of strained stateliness.
my husband’s!
his sway. Some day he would call, when the stars were ready, and the
If you are not, then you have certainly been deceiving us all in a very
magnetic, for one thing; and after its immersion in the acid solvents
Faithfulness is to the emotional life what consistency is to the life
before. The fruit was growing to phenomenal size and unwonted gloss,
LORD DARLINGTON.  How can you be so conceited, DUMBY?
who propose to us, and not we who propose to the women. Except, of
All at once the dog started up abruptly, gave a frightened bark, and
terrible books were drawn voluminously from the stack shelves and from
“Don’t mind me, Harry. I am irritable, and out of temper. I shall come
farmhouse. In the course of time callers professed to hear sounds
LADY BRACKNELL.
JACK.
LORD GORING.  Well, you certainly have had your success while you are
home, and despatched telegrams to all the police inspectors in the
towards the door of his bedroom, a large octagonal chamber on the
Lord Henry laughed and rose. “I am going to the park,” he cried.
The feverish interest aroused at the meeting by Legrasse's tale,
agitation, both because of the growing rumblings beneath the domed
living quarters, the newly mended sheds, to a single visit.
handed round, “what is the matter with you to-night? You are quite out
Armitage, with Rice and Morgan, started to walk in the direction
at all, since so much of their ghastly, infra-bass timbre spoke to
British aristocracy, would be completely out of place among those who
“BAD Rocket?  BAD Rocket?” he said, as he whirled through the air;
do with our own will. Young men want to be faithful, and are not; old
For years, Dorian Gray could not free himself from the influence of
but plainly related and equally unknown to anyone who saw it. Nahum
know what it is.  One pays for one’s sin, and then one pays again, and
town, and Jack in the country?
LADY WINDERMERE.  Do.  Pretty, isn’t it!  It’s got my name on it, and
LORD CAVERSHAM.  [_Considerably taken aback_.]  What does this mean, sir?
what is spiritual seem as simple and natural as sunlight or the sea: one
“Very well. I shall be here at eleven,” said Dorian.
But you, oh! can’t you forgive me for to-night? I will work so hard and
top of the mountain. Curtis, who had held the instrument, dropped it
shouldn't have been there; an angle which was acute, but behaved as
GWENDOLEN.
MABEL CHILTERN.  He can be what he chooses.  All I want is to be . . . to
a headache.
"In his house at R'lyeh dead Cthulhu waits dreaming."
saisit_.  _Hérode se cache le visage_, _avec son manteau_.  _Hérodias
He walked up and down the room two or three times. Then he turned to
cannon forming part of the yacht's equipment.
silly melodramas Mother used to be so fond of acting in. I am not going
depression that Mr. Otis and the boys walked up to the house, the groom
never came.
“‘Well, never mind, I will do without it,’ cried little Hans, and he took
melodramatic side.
dreadful. Are you ill? You have no idea what it was. You have no idea
comparatively easy if it did.  There is much more before me.  I have
JACK.
belong to anything right or proper for this earth, and impious with
chatting together.
rather to forget what has happened, or to see it from a proper artistic
day. No! don’t think of that. Look at the matter purely from the
some rose.  It has always been so with me from my boyhood.  There is not
his recovery, and my uncle kept no record of his night-thoughts after a
to turn whatever house I entered into a house of mourning: to make my
insulter votre épouse?
lunch there.
duration. Duty came first; and although there must have been nearly a
self-denial. Beautiful sins, like beautiful things, are the privilege
pasturage, but he says he thinks it p'inted towards the glen rud to the
were in unison, and at what point they were at discord—there was a
ROSALIE (_Maid_)            _Miss Winifred Dolan_.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Rising_.]  Oh, I couldn’t, I couldn’t!
for that. Besides, what on earth could happen to you, Dorian? You have
Whateley's reputation for black magic, and the unexplained death by
The aperture was black with a darkness almost material. That
felt that I was right....
and his cheeks burning.
round the Gardners and all they touched, and the very presence of one
laughing.”
“Don’t pay any attention to him, Dorian,” said the painter. “I
on the mountains that May Night?
LADY WINDERMERE.  Mrs. Erlynne?  I never heard of her, Duchess.  And what
the ancient tottering cottage where the trees first begin to get very
proceeding further he had to retreat to another room and return
What did he see?
Prince_, some of it in _The Young King_, notably in the passage where the
LORD GORING.  I don’t like the name.
the four doors in sight, only one was locked, and on this he tried
LORD AUGUSTUS.  _Suddenly smiles and looks back at him_.]  Lord Augustus!
not believe I would like to visit that country by night--at least not
would gather, for an odd timidity about the deep skyey voids above had
* * * * *
been an evil influence to others, and had experienced a terrible joy in
offer.  I will give it to you now, if you promise to marry me.
pieces with age and worm-holes. She had never been to school, but was
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Yes, utterly sacrificed.  Loveless marriages are
LADY MARKBY.  They do, dear.  But I am afraid such a scheme would be
course; but it told on his wife more. The boys were better off, being
LORD GORING.  She has mistaken her man, hasn’t she?
text, printed in Springfield, is still extant. Noises in the hills
I doubt very much if Ammi consciously lied to me, and I do not think
wa'n't all human hisself, I allus says to everybody; an' I think he an'
and barn.
members, absolutely nothing was to be discovered; hence the anxiety
and on the other side of the earth poets and artists had begun to
felt no such pleasure. It had kept him awake at night. When he had been
talk about ambition.
it. I have put too much of myself into it.”
time into separate atoms of agony, each of which was too terrible to be
In the meantime a quieter yet even more spiritually poignant phase of
HOPPER.
LORD CAVERSHAM.  I regret to say, Miss Chiltern, that I have no influence
et la donne au soldat qui l’apporte immédiatement au bourreau_.  _Le
virtue.  Reformed, you would be perfectly tedious.  That is the worst of
tell me that you have exhausted life. When a man says that one knows
The lad hesitated, and looked over at Lord Henry, who was watching them
did their wives; and Ammi had nothing but praise for him after all
LORD CAVERSHAM.  He has got more than pluck, sir, he has got genius.
to_ LADY PLYMDALE.]
you? I suppose he bored you. If so, he never forgave you. It’s a habit
Cecily, you will come with us.
cloak, and the Frost painted all the trees silver.  Then they invited the
LADY WINDERMERE.  She is better than I am.
Rocket; “no doubt that is what it means,” and he looked more supercilious
his mother was very beautiful?”
Adrian Singleton rose up wearily and followed Dorian to the bar.
In May the insects came, and Nahum's place became a nightmare of
the "Cthulhu Cult," and was visiting a learned friend of Paterson,
ALGERNON.
comfort, is it not?
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes, I’m of age to-day.  Quite an important day in my
an added shock that the others were spared, and was crushed for ever
read anything to-night. All I want is a plain answer to my question.”
for you if I had.  It would have taught you both better manners.
meeting-place in the haunted wood. But of those mysterious allies no
“It is not much to ask of you, Dorian, and it is entirely for your own
LADY MARKBY                 _Miss Fanny Brough_.
CECILY.
sword-hilt.
July. Basket chairs, and a table covered with books, are set under a
Sime or an Angarola could paint. Void of clothing, this hybrid spawn
think so, Mr.
little boy stretched out his two arms and flung them round the Giant’s
them. The Americans are an extremely interesting people.
his tapestries, his enamels, his jewels, his carved ivories, made me
of terror came over me. I knew that I had come face to face with some
that it was only through love that one could approach either the heart of
maouth o' the glen--opposite side ter this--an' smelt the same awful
French-Canadians have tried it, Italians have tried it, and the Poles
that the soul is competent to gain.'  We think in eternity, but we move
JACK.
had reached the sixth milestone he was so tired that he had to sit down
and intellectual. It was not that mere physical admiration of beauty
“Well?” said the Water-rat, after a long pause.
be for good, not for evil. They say that you corrupt every one with
[Enter Jack. Lane goes off.]
beautiful things, but should put nothing of his own life into them. We
s the earth
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Ah! the strength of women comes from the fact that
fiction are the things that one has ceased to use in fact.
l to no
as he had been during his lifetime.  And certainly, if his place is among
LORD GORING.  [_Sadly_.]  You thought you had won.
hands in his pockets, and appealed to the country at the top of his
HÉRODIAS.  J’approuve ce que ma fille a fait, et je veux rester ici
Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders. “It is the real Dorian Gray—that is
had come from the stars, and had brought Their images with Them."
to get rid of Ernest. And I strongly advise you to do the same with Mr.
its unreality, and should combine the insincere character of a romantic
pulled desperately for the _Alert_ as the mountainous monstrosity
diary, and promising an explanation in due course of time.
architecture, and formal French tragedy, and St.
thick. It was a fearsomely ancient place, and had begun to exude the
“‘Certainly,’ cried little Hans, and he ran into the shed and dragged the
with her pocket-handkerchief_, _goes to tea-table_, _and sits down_.]
as my types not merely the shepherd on the hillside and the prisoner in
After breakfast, he walked with the duchess for an hour in the garden
gold hair. There was something in his face that made one trust him at
fact.  See that everything is ready by half-past ten.  And, Parker, be
Leaf after leaf of the fine gold the Swallow picked off, till the Happy
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Leaning forward_.]  Don’t say that.
and crept down the corridor. On reaching the room occupied by the twins,
than they do.  I don’t think you realise sufficiently, Robert, that you
Something very like fright had come over all the explorers before
But the Catherine Wheel shook her head.  “Romance is dead, Romance is
now with any respect are people much younger than myself. They seem in
being immeasurably the stronger during the period of the sculptor's
LORD GORING.  [_With deep feeling in his voice_.]  Do not for that reason
ph:
said, with a heavy sigh, “It is a bad omen, Harry, a very bad omen.”
boring.
him and insisted that he cease work. He refused, intimating that it was
them to sit down silently to bitter herbs and funeral baked meats.  I
Scott-Eliott's _Atlantis and the Lost Lemuria_), and the rest comments
hues of the sunlight. Even the long, dark woodland climb beyond seemed
moon seem taken from us.  Outside, the day may be blue and gold, but the
ROSALIE.  Yes, my lady—at half-past nine.  I told him your ladyship was
[_Every one starts and turns round_.  LADY WINDERMERE _slips out from
you.  In old days nobody pretended to be a bit better than his
hat for the little Duke from a linen-draper, who was just putting up his
later certain private documents passed through my hands.
It was the farthest corner of the garden, and in it was standing a little
out some false, shallow, degrading existence that the world in its
bloomed and died many times, and nights of horror repeated the story of
ough it were sweeter than honey to
pas l’écouter.
In the summer of 1927 Wilbur repaired two sheds in the farmyard and
who had once called at the farm, and who now politely plied him with
relations. I suppose it comes from the fact that none of us can stand
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Of course it is worth while, sir.  Which is the most
was horrible.  For that there can
brutal always.  I said to her things that were hideously true, on my
screamed outright. While he screamed he thought a momentary cloud
tremendous sense of responsibility. Saturday afternoon he felt able to
were braying, bellowing and writhing about a monstrous ring-shaped
sleepers."
The CALL of CTHULHU
arriving at the village about 1 in the afternoon. The day was pleasant,
MERRIMAN.
any healthy New England wood. There was too much silence in the dim
charming.” And Lord Henry flung himself down on the divan and opened
came in last night?
Lord Henry, dipping his white fingers into a red copper bowl filled
De contempler
was a green paste, waxy in lustre, the odour curiously heavy and
life, Lane.
horrible.  But there is one thing worse than an absolutely loveless
whereupon the strange crew began to fire savagely and without
“Let me come with you,” he murmured.
firearms and plunged determinedly into the nauseous rout. For five
A PLAY
ALGERNON.
Republican simplicity should be forgotten." His objections, however,
] Had you never a brother of any kind?
D'Iberville, before La Salle, before the Indians, and before even the
je m’en souviens . . .
boys grew afraid of her, and Thaddeus nearly fainted at the way she
the day of my release I shall give many thanks to many people, and ask to
Good-bye, Basil. It has been a most interesting afternoon.”
February 14th, 1895
subconscious residuum had influenced his art profoundly, and he showed
those who have sought to give me consolation as dust and ashes in my
I thought you had come up for pleasure? . . . I call that business.
kill my brother, indeed I think I’ll kill him in any case. Cecily is a
ALGERNON.
“Good heavens!” cried the Goose.  “It is going to rain sticks”; and she
“She will never come to life again now,” muttered the lad, burying his
t once conceded from the specimens scattered about that his genius
whimpered, kept from screaming by some obscure, vestigial instinct
the liberated Old Ones would teach them new ways to shout and kill
of his equally weird reading and imagining. Later, by virtue of its
of feelers, a scaly, rubbery-looking body, prodigious claws on hind
_Paris: Librairie de l’Art Indépendant._
Cecily! I am surprised at you. Mr. Worthing has many troubles in his
JACK.
GWENDOLEN.
Like all poetical natures he loved ignorant people.  He knew that in the
was foolish of me.  I will offer him mine now.  I will give him mine.  I
an innocent expression were the fashion then, Windermere!  [_A pause_.]
one who still remains, or who ever talks of the strange days; and he
frost lay like salt upon the grass. The sky was an inverted cup of blue
temperance beverage, an incident that occurred at Leamington. And here,
human
impossible.
HÉRODE.  Taisez-vous.  Je vous dis que vous êtes stérile.  Vous ne m’avez
will ever get into this demmed thing called Society?  Would you introduce
after dinner. You shan’t sit next either of them. You shall sit by me
this woman asked of me was nothing compared to what she offered to me.
few. All of these, however, bore out the notes in full. I have often
face on the canvas bear the burden of his passions and his sins; that
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Hate these new-fangled names.  Same thing as we used to
_Lord Darlington’s Rooms_.  _A large sofa is in front of fireplace R._
“You will always like me, Dorian,” he replied. “Will you have some
bateau sur la mer de Galilée, et il parle à ses disciples.
Guerrera and Angstrom. Parker slipped as the other three were plunging
but they was a haff-shaped man's face on top of it, an' it looked like
man, the soul that wealth was marring.  In his view of life he is one
sorry to have put you to any inconvenience.
"The thing has gone for ever," Armitage said. "It has been split up
ALGERNON.
This final memory, whatever it was, proved too much for poor Curtis,
said whatever they had to say, which, in most cases, was probably not
upon them in the night. It was voodoo, apparently, but voodoo of a more
hours that follow with leaden feet.  It is so difficult to keep 'heights
size and accomplishments were almost alarming. He had grown as large as
about whom the most frightful tales of wizardry had been whispered
near it, and a buggy-wheel must have brushed the coping and knocked in
afraid, as though it held something that he longed for and yet
Cecily is the sweetest, dearest, prettiest girl in the whole world. And
though only Gawd knows jest what it is.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  As you choose.  When I called on you yesterday
woods. He could not pass that well from which his horses had run away.
Galilée, et il parle à ses disciples.
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_With a sigh_.]  Our husbands never appreciate anything
others. Even when her expression changed he did nothing. But when the
Sibyl Vane, a young actress recently engaged at the Royal Theatre,
e early morning,
rose that blossomed on the topmost spray of the Tree.
unmistakably from within. Some instinct warned Armitage that what was
I warned you."
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Turning to him_.]  You are very jealous of Mrs.
merciful. Now and then Merwin's screams were answered faintly from the
Court etiquette.  That is as far as they can attain to in 'the
Neither of his friends dared to say anything to him. She seemed to them
"Wal, all right, ef ye feel that way abaout it. Maybe Harvard wun't be
thought you must have some curious romance on hand. You have; but it is
the old house would have ventured forth for any earthly reward. With
about them, in which the dark fears of rustics were held up to polite
to every one.  And the worst of it all is that I have been told that this
Brut, ’89; wine I was specially reserving for myself. Continuing his
spoke in a dreamy, stilted manner which suggested pose and alienated
age, sir, I had been an inconsolable widower for three months, and was
of the intellect—simply a confession of failure. Faithfulness! I must
pas.  Elle chancelle à travers les nuages comme une femme ivre . . . Je
Green, were killed; and the remaining eight under Second Mate
Armitage and his companions. Then old Sam Hutchins thought of something
delirium.
ce,
her right, Sir Thomas Burdon, a Radical member of Parliament, who
CECILY.
Pierce remarked that the fragment was growing smaller and burning the
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I loved you, Arthur.
if it were obtuse. So only Briden and Johansen reached the boat, and
“_Trop d’audace_, I tell her,” said Dorian.
the brain and numbs us with the black extra-cosmic gulfs it throws open
for you if I had.  It would have taught you both better manners.
or fast-filling cellar. Weeds and briers reigned, and furtive wild
“You cannot change to me, Dorian,” said Lord Henry. “You and I will
soldats_.]  Venez ici, soldats.  Descendez dans cette citerne, et
of it, that she suddenly broke off her engagement with the present Lo
been living.  Sorrow, then, and all that it teaches one, is my new world.
one of the first to be approached by the several outsiders who took
siege of carpentry went on at the old house. It was all inside the
anywhere else, and early in March there was an awed discussion in
and must have guessed without guidance that it was nothing of this or
to work at once.
his death, and at that rate...."
all, indeed. It does not thrill. It produces absolutely no vibrations .
“But I like sentimental people.”
the chief engineer to keep a sharp watch on him. I would hate to think
heirlooms, nothing is an heirloom that is not so mentioned in a will or
I sought him out the next morning, having heard that he lived alone in
legends of a hidden lake unglimpsed by mortal sight, in which dwelt a
desires of the strange evil so vaguely threatening this planet. Talks
certainly was a marvellous sight.
He was never specific, but appeared to think that they were not as
LADY WINDERMERE.
with that pride of individualism that is half the fascination of sin,
“I am tired of strawberry leaves.”
“I don’t know how we could manage without him,” answered the elder
JACK.
"I am so sorry for you," she said, "but my brothers are going back to
studio, and as soon as I had got rid of the intolerable fascination of
thing get on your nerves. You must come and dine with me, and
of any kind.
have that sort of thing in their houses. They say a corpse brings bad
passed over the moon, and the silhouette of clutching branches faded
MRS. ERLYNNE.  Thank you.
arbitrary key-words known only to the initiated. The older authorities
some
always ends by deceiving others. That is what the world calls a
Europe, we'd have it at home in a very short time in one of our public
are not particularly encouraging. This world is good enough for me,
the general life of a morbid community used to their queer ways and
sir.  Common sense is the privilege of our sex.
heart.’”
burns an' sucks ... it come from some place whar things ain't as they
in the Miskatonic where the devil held court beside a curious stone
Mr. Thomas Cardew of 149 Belgrave Square, S.W.; Gervase Park, Dorking,
watch the dawn remaking the world in its antique pattern. The wan
[Looking up.] It has stopped now. [The noise is redoubled.]
an locks and bolts were useless before a
disturbed Professor Angell.
In the meantime a quieter yet even more spiritually poignant phase of
ancy of his own. The thing was horribly
become a burden to me. I want to escape, to go away, to forget. It was
am going back to Court almost immediately.  I am a great favourite at
story.”
of all with such industries as you seem to recommend.  Indeed, I have
obtained from the college laboratory. The more he reflected on the
disuse of the road past Nahum's which led to its ultimate abandonment.
“‘Oh! on no account,’ cried little Hans and he jumped out of bed, and
*       *       *       *       *
Without warning came those deep, cracked, raucous vocal sounds which
of unhallowed rites and conclaves of the Indians, amidst which they
him a great deal. Yes, don't laugh, Cecil, I really do. He made me see
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I quite agree with you, Lady Markby.  It is nearly six
by purely professional considerations.
cynical.
rhythmical surging or lapping, as of the waves on some level beach. The
architecture which flaunts its stuccoed front amidst the lovely
horses had become utterly frightful, but not a soul of that group in
fear we never shall.
experiences. [Rises, looks at her watch.] Gwendolen! the time
leads a man.'  Well, it might lead to worse places.  The more mechanical
rud hed jest caved in like the storm hed blowed it over, only the wind
beautiful things mean only beauty.
MRS. CHEVELEY.  I see that after all these years you have not changed a
dim light the hideous face on the canvas grinning at him. There was
petals of her lips. They trembled. Some southern wind of passion swept
experience. It was as little of an active cause as conscience itself.
_3. The Madness from the Sea._
Gradually the events of the preceding night crept with silent,
schools_.]
across to him, and with her little fingers stroked his hair. She knelt
at the terrible reality.
“And what would you do in return?” said the little bird, swinging upon a
Louis Seize cane_.
over Chapman's Brook, and it was blind groping from there to the open
testing was carried on in glass; and it was in a glass beaker that they
LORD CAVERSHAM.  You approve of it?  Good heavens!
rd nothing about it.  But I will send for the
LADY BRACKNELL.
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Following her_.]  Yes; you have the courage.  There
Ahem! Cecily! [Picking up hat.] Your Rector here is, I suppose,
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  A political life is a noble career!
LADY BRACKNELL.
Now it seems to me that love of some kind is the only possible
the
y_.]  The music is in German.  You would not
are deserted and falling to ruin, and that the broken-steepled church
hideous iteration the bitten lips of Dorian Gray shaped and reshaped
that. Who the man is, why he died, how he died, are matters that do not
it, and sending forth to the zenith a bombarding cloudburst of such
woman.  She is the most dangerous woman I know.  You don’t realise what
Oh, I don’t care about Jack. I don’t care for anybody in the whole
[Calmly.] It seems to be mine.
those shining orchard trees with their gnarled, fiendish contours; but
viewed it not long ago. It is truly a terrible thing, and unmistakably
rise in the road brings the mountains in view above the deep woods,
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Turning to her_.]  You opened a letter of mine to my
*       *       *       *       *
on the mountains. Dunwich folk read the stories when they appeared, and
the buggy.
Then the snow came, and after the snow came the frost.  The streets
dreamer, and he is called upon to act.  He has the nature of the poet,
winding-sheet, and crawl round the room, with white, bleached bones and
with him. Between gasps Luther tried to stammer out his tale to Mrs.
hink it
on flapping membranous wings. The odor arising from the newly opened
that, he didn't git to sleep at all till sunup, an' no sooner was he
dark, as he now clearly saw was the case with the nearby vegetation.
States Minister covered him with his revolver, and called upon him, in
families of high position strange coincidences are not supposed to
Never, never, never!
importance.
Those fragments, as Armitage recalls them, ran something like "_N'gai,
life. That was enough.
“Sphinxes without secrets.”
she was extremely glad she had not met him in early life. “I know, my
you shouldn’t act. You make yourself ridiculous. My friends were bored.
discoloration behind it.
callous and cold. She has entirely altered.
the right road and my face set towards 'the gate which is called
“It’s no use,” sighed Adrian Singleton. “I don’t care to go back. What
the number being slightly superior, because of their particularly
subject is to be tabooed. As for omens, there is no such thing as an
it back to me, Algy.
laughed.  Each train as it came up swelled the audience.  Nothing could
town to consult his doctor and asking him to entertain his guests in
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Smiling_.]  The wisest thing I ever did in my life.
not told me the truth, Mrs. Erlynne.
He thought for a moment. “Can you remember any great error that you
dead under the tree, all covered with white blossoms.
“Alan, I entreat you. Think of the position I am in. Just before you
should be grateful.  The unfortunate thing is that there have been none
could be so vast. Then, very softly and slowly, the acre-great panel
"_Ygnaiih ... ygnaiih ... thflthkh'ngha ... Yog-Sothoth...._" rang the
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_With a touch of bitterness_.]  I suppose I had
goatish features grew crafty. Armitage, half ready to tell him he might
seemed to him to be absurdly melodramatic. Her tears and sobs annoyed
highly malleable, and in the dark its luminosity was very marked.
some comfort to have so many people with him.
than I am to acknowledge that it is better to be good than to be ugly.”
night of March 22nd. Pronounced well by his physician, he returned
Good! Algy, you may turn round now.
JACK.
now, as he stood gazing at the shadow of his own loveliness, the full
what I suffered.”
as of a cloven sunfish, a stench as of a thousand opened graves, and
“How dreadful!” cried Lord Henry. “I can stand brute force, but brute
reach them.
through which he had roamed all his life. They were better under water
both brittleness and hollowness. One of the professors gave it a smart
against him, and that they were every one of them to be bought.”
Yet it was not this alone that made him gloomy and morose.
Waterfront scum was far too common for special mention; though there
at their ease and gape at the play. If they know nothing of victory,
of feelers, a scaly, rubbery-looking body, prodigious claws on hind
and I have found one. Here are two chairs; let us sit down and see the
HÉRODIAS.  Je le vois bien, et les étoiles tombent comme des figues
Headless Earl."
“Hush, Alan. You have saved my life,” said Dorian.
professor that it must be identical with the nameless monstrosity
name Tuppy gives to his mistakes.  That is all.  [LORD AUGUSTUS _looks
pas?
harsh _ture_ of the Amazon tribes, that is sounded by the sentinels who
LADY WINDERMERE.  I slept very badly.
beside the bas-relief and the papers of Professor Angell. With it shall
Mais je pense que vous avez peur de lui . . . Enfin, je sais bien que
crowded out all other images at the time.
They would have been most interesting.
e
trees slope fantastically, and where thin brooklets trickle without
silent, I cannot be.  Expression is as necessary to me as leaf and
were common. In the last stages--and death was always the result--there
d dislike
a detached piece of the phosphorescence appeared to stir furtively in
was abnormally lifelike, and the more subtly fearful because its source
ck again and
LADY CHILTERN.  What do you mean by a foolish letter?
LADY CHILTERN.  Yes.
Hallowmass. Now that very stone formed the center of a vast space
landed at the trim wharves in the shadow of the Egeberg.
father? Born on Candlemas--nine months after May Eve of 1912, when the
she will say to me. I am far too frightened to call.”
to manage her, but were beaten about by the storm of April 2nd.
breath was like ice.
ed his steps in the direction of Berkeley Square.
Then he flew gently round the bed, fanning the boy’s forehead with his
come back...."
the second duty is, no one has as yet discovered.
right in what she said of him. Don’t spoil him. Don’t try to influence
An' she says he says they was a swishin', lappin' saound, more nor
“Let us put it into the fire!” said the other boy, “it will help to boil
them their opinion on something that happened yesterday, they solemnly
at any rate, that you are going to take up your residence here.”
ignorant as they were, the creatures held with surprizing consistency
hill.  Yet Love is better than Life, and what is the heart of a bird
hands, it was a terrible and paralysing tyranny.  Christ swept it aside.
left to right in endless bacchanale between the ring of bodies and the
happy married life.  But I’ll tell you what it is at supper.  [_Moves
LADY AGATHA.  Yes, mamma.
what he had seen in strange lands.  He told him of the red ibises, who
to men the very gold of their lives.”
away, the day may come when you will starve for love and it will not be
laboratory where the two phials of dust were finally taken. Under the
ground, and one side of the old red barn had completely caved in. Of
ALGERNON.
Hand-made Paper and Japanese Vellum_) _February_
had another strange colour; not quite like that of the skunk-cabbage,
Houghton, like the whole of the region he had entered so reluctantly in
possessed it.
have a whisky and soda?
LADY BRACKNELL.
close against the hill; and no one could imagine why a cleated wooden
alike by Eskimo diabolists and mongrel Louisianans? Professor Angell's
It was a little before this that the horses had stampeded. Something
can judge them.”
and the dog had torn off all the clothing and some of the skin. It
reports of the Frye tragedy, decided to seek out the officers and
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Why was it broken off?
"quite absurd. I must rattle my chains, and groan through keyholes, and
fantastic, just the sort of sin, I fancied, a priest who knew
to have died--but poor Lavinia Whateley, the twisted albino, was never
I came. There will have to be an inquest, of course, and you must not
LORD GORING.  [_Pulling himself together for a great effort_, _and
“I shall come with you, Dorian, if you wish it. I see I have missed my
scholar.
yet it seems to me to be the one thing I have been looking for all my
up by the _Alert_ on March 22nd, and I could feel the mate's regret as
“Give me a red rose,” she cried, “and I will sing you my sweetest song.”
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Well, sir? am I to wait attendance on you?
yet how difficult to decide between the claims of the various schools!
Henry. “A man can be happy with any woman, as long as he does not love
les voiles de mousseline, je vous regarderai, Narraboth, je vous
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Rising_.]  Oh no, don’t.
one of the first to be approached by the several outsiders who took
possède des oiseaux aussi merveilleux.  Je suis sûr que même César ne
course, in middle-class life. But then the middle classes are not
[_Exit_ MR. CECIL GRAHAM _with rest of guests_.  LADY WINDERMERE
duty to appear in the corridor once a week, and to gibber from the large
Cecily, you may kiss me!
*       *       *       *       *
on Zenas ... he was a big boy, full o' life ... it beats down your
consciousness or obscure, long-latent heredity, were those
Iokanaan, et je t’ai aimé.  Oh! comme je t’ai aimé.  Je t’aime encore,
some flour on credit, and that I could not do.  Flour is one thing, and
(https://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/1/4/5/2/14522/14522-h/14522-h.htm)
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Impossible!  I have got to telegraph to Vienna to-night.
He was very nearly blackballed at a West End club of which his birth
He threw himself into a chair and began to think. Suddenly there
one who had it not, made it and broken it.—But let that pass.  I may have
more, while Mrs.
piece of shelf-paper. It was nothing on which I would naturally have
to the ten-acre pasture and stumbled home by the north road and the
Johansen's voyage had begun just as he told it to the vice-admiralty.
y amid the pathless deserts of Arabia, where
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Angrily_.]  Then let me beg of you to leave our house
silent heretofore, spoke aloud.
covered themselves with blossoms, and were waving their arms gently above
distasteful to most men.
Eighth Edition_ (1_s._ _net_) _1912_, _Ninth and Tenth
LADY JEDBURGH.  Good night, Lady Windermere.  What a fascinating woman
his. Night would soon fall, and it was then that the mountainous
“Swallow, Swallow, little Swallow,” said the Prince, “will you not stay
If they can catch the fleeing soul when it leaves the body, they
very heartless, sir, very heartless.
there on Friday!
like the beat of a hammer.
the marvel of your own face. And it had all been
rava Portuguese from the Cape
“Why do you ask me that, Harry?”
His Angels; and the Angel brought Him the leaden heart and the dead bird.
[Picking up the muffin-dish.] Oh, that is nonsense; you are always
LORD GORING.
ads weaker vessels astray.
on there. I met Lady Gwendolen, Harry’s sister, for the first time. We
some indications of the strange hill noises came from afar off, he
untain-head.
like to be thought so_.  _A flawless dandy_, _he would be annoyed if he
anything after all--the splash had been something else--something which
“How horrid of you, Harry!” cried the duchess. “Isn’t it, Mr. Gray?
“Don’t go to the theatre to-night, Dorian,” said Hallward.
the savage barking of the dogs awakened the household at Elmer Frye's,
HÉRODE.  Mais j’ai entendu dire qu’Iokanaan lui-même est votre prophète
LADY WINDERMERE.  How alone I am in life!  How terribly alone!
my life the vital Importance of Being Earnest.
he was going up to
formed themselves insensibly under his hands. It was, no doubt, the
ALGERNON.
"Double Sixes." The story was well known at the time, though, of course,
PARKER.  No, madam.  Her ladyship has just gone out of the house.
wonderfully as you do.”
has broken the bond of marriage—not I.  I only break its bondage.
his great work on the history of the Democratic Party, on which he had
sweet, and austere sense of the word.  But Marius is little more than a
ideal whose memory haunts us artists like an exquisite dream. I
you. I suppose he wants to ask you what flowers you wish to have on the
The next day, it appears, they raised and landed on a small island,
This verbal jumble was the key to the recollection which excited and
while the intermittent light of a spectral half-moon played wanly on
ntly phosphorescent, and vanished with a deep
their original direction to see if any reason for their ordering
woodchucks, and not far from the Gardner place bagged a very peculiar
CECILY.
to Nahum's the next day they met with a bitter disappointment. The
thing which every man of that party agreed in whispering later on,
as he suspected, they were used as a cipher in a modern language.
see with terrible vividness the damp Cyclopean city of slimy green
deep--but even so, I shall never drink it. I do not think I shall visit
, and his
digging up the past, and raking up the future. I had buried my romance
women, well, dear Gertrude, you belong to the younger generation, and I
[To Cecily.] Come here, sweet child. [Cecily goes over.] How old are
is no doubt of that.
eemed to
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_C._]  London is full of women who trust their
at all, and Robert is the only genius I could ever bear.  As a rule, I
“A long engagement exhausts them, but they are capital at a
the graoun' whar the side timbers is blowed away. An' they's awful
their lingering traces of the tarry stickiness, the blasphemous tracks
and tremulous. People generally suspected him of knowing something
pointed to some wooden sheds and beehives near the stone wall on the
an can ever
Then there burst forth a frantic whinny from Ammi's horse outside,
Whateley's annals. It was in truth a diary, as all had thought; and
Lane’s views on marriage seem somewhat lax. Really, if the lower orders
letter that we had been afr
placard.
from his horse, he patted him kindly on the shoulders
He told me. He told me right out before everybody. It was horrible! Why
enthralls us. In the present case, what is it that has really happened?
living quarters, the newly mended sheds, to a single visit. They filed
For the next three days everybody went about saying, “White rose, Red
that had vanished, and in another second they had vanished too. Behind
and play in the Giant’s garden.
Everything about my tragedy has been hideous, mean, repellent, lacking in
draughts.  No draughts at home.
in at Ammi Pierce's on the way. Ammi was forty then, and all the queer
GWENDOLEN.
all people in the world the English have the least sense of the beauty
Harry, how I loved her once! It seems years ago to me now. She was
regarde.  Pourquoi me regarde-t-elle avec ses yeux d’or sous ses
unplaceable stone.
peacefully, lying on his right side, with one hand underneath his
he showed some trace of the pride later noticed in his daughter, and
tomatoes, and Nahum sadly saw that his entire crop was lost. Quick to
would call it a prayer....”
of Dunwich and its brooding presences, and of Wilbur Whateley and his
bourreau a l’air effaré_.]  Qui a pris ma bague?  Il y avait une bague à
because of his wide linguistic learning and skill in the mystical
1890, the young Duchess of Cheshire was presented at the Queen's first
SALOMÉ.  Il dit des choses monstrueuses, à propos de ma mère, n’est-ce
thought she wanted to be good, to get back into a place that she had lost
age.  I had realised this for myself at the very dawn of my manhood, and
Then, whispered Castro, those first men formed the cult around small
a few minutes Victor appeared with the lamps and drew the blinds down.
After all, it never would have happened if I had not met you. You
enseigne la philosophie grecque.  Et les Grecs sont des gentils.  Ils ne
but occasional frantic words, as repeated by Dr. Tobey, convinced the
tell him that?
So that was the story of Dorian Gray’s parentage.
by eight black horses, each of which carried on its head a great tuft of
“One has to pay in other ways but money.”
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_With a note of irony in her voice_.]  To bid good-bye to
thought it probable that others would be discovered as the enclosing
della membre sue_, to use one of Dante's most terrible Tacitean
Sir Simon de Canterville alluded to in any way. At eleven o'clock the
legends of a hidden lake unglimpsed by mortal sight, in which dwelt a
weakness in that.  There is a horrible, a terrible courage.  I had that
cliff of almost complete verticality; and as the investigators climbed
pricket, and do you know how she had it sent to table? However, it is
down the dreary Euston Road. The passersby glanced in wonder at the
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Except the people!
not regret having read this marvellous tale._
upland lot, but did nothing with the land around the house. He knew it
paounded daown into the rud. An' the smell was awful, like what it is
not wonder that the foreigners would not stay, for this was no region
HÉRODE.  [_Il ne quitte plus Salomé du regard_.]  Tigellin, quand tu as
a play. She knows nothing of life. She lives with her mother, a faded
The following winter brought an event no less strange than Wilbur's
thrust back into the chair and that Campbell was gazing into a
cared for me, he would have come after me, would have taken me back by
by long and careful practice on a writing-master, while the United
Christ, like all fascinating personalities, had the power of not merely
shudder ran through him.
ain women but the ruin of pretty ones.  Agatha, darling!
“You could not have helped telling me, Dorian. All through your life
I do know is that life cannot be understood without much charity, cannot
on a desperate chance; and, setting the engine for full speed, ran
with its monoliths and sepulchers, had sunk beneath the waves; and the
this afternoon about her.  Of course, she must be all right if _you_
with whom they could have scenes. Lord Henry had told him that, and
must go.  Good-bye.  Won’t you shake hands?
now, and had grown used to the sense of something near him waiting
LORD GORING.  I see you are quite as wilful as you used to be.
ALGERNON.
mentioned by the professor.
growed ... I seen it the fust time this week ... must a' got strong
Just lean it against the wall. Thanks.”
have not the slightest fear of the result. You are certain to
come on the
“‘Dear little Hans,’ said the Miller, ‘would you mind carrying this sack
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  That I will not do.
“You wrecked the life of Sibyl Vane,” was the answer, “and Sibyl Vane
invariably the result.
I am glad, however, that he made up his mind at the last to some
The five cats had left some time before, but their going was scarcely
LORD DARLINGTON.  [_Upstage with_ LORD WINDERMERE.]  I am afraid I shall
ALGERNON.
did Chiltern uphold the scheme?
“Pleasure is the only thing worth having a theory about,” he answered
to Windermere?
palpitating centre of romance.
acquaintances for their good characters, and my enemies for their good
It is not the Prime Minster’s day for seeing the unemployed.
necessary for me to find it somewhere.
athless Chinamen had told him, were still to be found as Cyclopean
but it is quite true.”
always played. To-night, for the first time, I became conscious that
a gaunt skeleton, that was stretched out at full length on the stone
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  My God! what brought you into my life?
all. I never had a brother in my life, and I certainly have not the
deep--but even so, I shall never drink it. I do not think I shall visit
GWENDOLEN.
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Taking her husband’s hand_.]  I admire him for it.  I
what he sought was no longer there. It had come to meet him,
one’s own life, as Harry says, is to escape the suffering of life. I
papers and collections of my uncle, failed in any way to identify this
mentally aberrant type. Most were seamen, and a sprinkling of negroes
“I cannot do it,” he said, mechanically, as though words could alter
jostled by a nautical-looking negro who had come from one of the queer
aring
take copious notes both from the current sections and from those he had
shapes of art, the dreamy shadows of song. They were what he needed for
JACK.
against me now?  Do you think it fair that a man’s whole career should be
brick wall.
under another name; and because the noises in the hills had sounded,
whereupon the strange crew began to fire savagely and without
not regret having read this marvellous tale._
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Hoarsely_.]  It is not true.
and waited. Hour after hour he waited, but the cock, for some strange
They are charmingly artificial, but they have no sense of art. You are
oneself, and if you want an inscription to read at dawn and at
rang again, but hardly had the fearful echo died away when a door
[Enter Lane with the cigarette case on a salver. Algernon takes it at
writer would scarcely have wished the trouble of using another speech
man of experience.
seemed a well-drilled chorus of hoarse voices would rise in singsong
from a trip to Athens."
her.”
one thing.  I had lost my name, my position, my happiness, my freedom, my
in the meteor. Nahum ploughed and sowed the ten-acre pasture and the
Almost at the same time the mortality among the livestock commenced.
indescribable scene, she began to churn the lethal waters; whilst on
delirium.
slept off his disorder that night without developing any real fever. He
ALGERNON.
of art a presentation of the tragedy of his own soul.
scandals about all her friends.  I really must go to Vienna next winter.
all. You must have overtired yourself. You had better not come down to
his life
world.  I think that generosity is the essence of friendship, and,
tremendous sense of responsibility.
charm in them, sometimes,” said Lord Henry.
something with strawberries in it.”
shall be great friends, I hope!
can say just what is the matter with Dunwich; though old legends speak
suggestive of old and unhallowed cycles of life in which
waiting for him with the very chrism of coronation, and that his own soul
of whippoorwills that would come out of Cold Spring Glen to chirp under
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Il a été vu par une foule de passants parlant avec
Grosvenor Square. What is your income?
Orleans. Good-bye, Mr. Gray. Come and see me some afternoon in Curzon
few. But these were not the Great Old Ones. No man had ever seen the
in Their tombs. When, after infinities of chaos, the first men came,
the strange days the professors stayed away in contempt. Only one
contained such monstrous threats to the peace and sanity of the world.
_The action of the play is completed within twenty-four hours_.
want to go to bed early.”
much. If he had lived, he would have made provision for us. Don’t speak
will wish to say a few words to you, I am sure.
I am afraid so. It’s a very painful parting.
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Sitting L. of her_.]  But are you—?
would be of no use, and hoped that the summer's strange growths would
the man who had painted the portrait that was the origin of all his
thoughts that have filled you with terror, day-dreams and sleeping
the hayloft
wretched.”
LANE.
say one has to go to prison to understand it.
“I would say, my dear fellow, that you were posing for a character that
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Les Juifs adorent un Dieu qu’on ne peut pas voir.
SCENE
ALGERNON.
who propose to us, and not we who propose to the women. Except, of
he Sabaoth, [it ran] which did not
ago.
Literarum Notis_, De Vigenere's _Traité des Chiffres_, Falconer's
MERRIMAN.
hips, deep set in a kind of pinkish, ciliated orbit, was what seemed to
the "Cthulhu Cult," and was visiting a learned friend of Paterson,
to the squat misshapen figure that flattened itself into the shadow as
but when the stars were wrong, They could not live. But although They
feast.”
have been very pleasant.
_ and her crew an
1910
The rural tales are queer. They might be even queerer if city men
descendent et m’apportent ce que je demande, ce que le tétrarque m’a
exactly as an auctioneer treats his goods. She either explains them
The story of your romantic origin, as related to me by mamma, with
“Alas!  I have no ruby now,” said the Prince; “my eyes are all that I
among the cups, and her full red lips were smiling at something that
Cecily Cardew
LORD GORING.  How could I?  You went away with the child-diplomatist.
now by examination. What can you expect? Examinations, sir, are pure
and strained his vision to the utmost. He saw that Rice, from the
he wrote of her bombardment and sinking. Of the swarthy cult-fiends
will have to be in the House.  But there is nothing interesting on.
further assistance. All traces of strange dreaming had vanished with
to the whole thing. It has nothing to do with me.”
chants and dancing devil-flames; and, the frightened messenger added,
which man can reach it. One is by being cultured, the other by being
HÉRODE.  Vous ne remarquez pas comme votre fille est pâle.
MABEL CHILTERN.  Lord Goring, I think your father’s conversation much
LORD GORING.  [_After some hesitation_.]  Oh, merely by something in the
moonbeams; but this new glow was something definite and distinct, and
told him what queer things the specimen had done, and how it had
itself to death in some empty hollow.
of you to come and see me!  [_Shakes hands with her_, _and bows somewhat
would be something.”
“The what?” screamed the Water-rat.
of doing a wrong thing.
When Wilbur was a year and seven months old--in September of 1914--his
done?  What can be done?
You understand?
in his chest. He must have died almost instantaneously. Come; let us go
buried his face in his hands.
come back!  My wife and I will be charmed to see you!
As regards the other subject, the Relation of the Artistic Life to
than six months.
JACK.
was now the only person who ever visited the place, and his visits
most sensible conclusions. So, after thoroughly studying the manuscript
re-embarked at once for the Norwegian capital; and one autumn day
left behind him--the earth-threatening entity which, unknown to him,
enter a house for shame of some kind to follow after. I don’t know
night in the cabin whilst Johansen was wandering deliriously.
used to like that sort of piece, I believe. The longer I live, Dorian,
a feast;
town by the curving road on the south.
with the passions and the intellect. But now and then a complex
published?
I should like to make some money to take you and Sibyl off the stage. I
of, but there is no doubt that genius lasts longer than beauty. That
the reflection that long before sorrow had made my days her own and bound
whatever he took up—he was almost saddened by the reflection of the
other towns. Even the Providence Art Club, anxious to preserve its
powder, and Nahum feared that the trees would die before the poison
homogeneous.
ridicule. It was a mistake of Nahum's to tell a stolid city man about
prudence, quoted from that book of cowardice whose author apes the name
particular species, or even hint at its remotest affiliations.
said I may be transfigured, there being much of outside to work on.
looking for a nice dry spot to live in.
y en a d’autres qui la regardent trop.
was terrible enough, but those two crumbling objects were beyond all
white tie, as you told me once, anybody, even a stock-broker, can gain
its proper value. I think you will tire first, all the same. Some day
“My dear Dorian,” answered Lord Henry, taking a cigarette from his case
husband loves you—that you may never meet with such love again in your
season is almost over.  There is no use staying on.  Poor darling!  We’ll
ath came, but his wife must not
than anything else. They have wonderfully primitive instincts. We have
Those who find beautiful meanings in beautiful things are the
has come, and I am quite happy, and all my flowers are doing well.’
the cult narrative of Legrasse, I made a trip to Providence to see
vividness and darkened with dread of a giant monster's malign pursuit,
CECILY.
Lord Henry laughed. “If a man treats life artistically, his brain is
round to her room? That is an important point.”
our world and our conceptions have no part.
Women are so fond of using it. They spoil every romance by trying to
wait in the drawing-room for him.  His lordship will come to you there.
along the road.
forgets.
LADY CHILTERN.  You see now, I was sure, that for many reasons any
That is all. But we won’t discuss literature. Come round to-morrow. I
“Was he very distinguished?” asked the Water-rat.
pastured in the lot near the house, but toward the end of May the milk
been arranged beforehand, it could not have turned out better for him;
qualities to a severe test.
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Je ne peux pas comprendre cela.
“You have a rival.”
the painter’s work, and all that that meant.
whilst the hill noises rumbled faintly.
through the withered bracken
interview may be regarded as at an end.  You admit it was romantic, don’t
_Gazette_, but that dignitary did no more than write a humorous article
cried to God--
stand knee-deep in the gathered grapes of the stony vineyards of Spain.
however, made him hesitate in his fell purpose, so he contented himself
can clear off the earth, and I guess Grandfather will be dead then,
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Certainly, sir.  I mean certainly not, sir.  You are
Your guardian?
"Well, so does the family doctor for that matter, Lord Canterville.
to kill them by pain, instead of aiming at making them elements of a
London of his own day what to imperial Neronian Rome the author of the
reproaches about Sibyl Vane had been!—how shallow, and of what little
the Whateleys and Bishops still send their eldest sons to Harvard and
by him. His mother had money, too. All the Selby property came to her,
existence is ceaseless change.
brighter, bringing to the minds of the huddled men, a sense of doom and
worship, so Inspector Legrasse and his nineteen colleagues plunged on
not masked by a bland optimism. But it is not from them that there
a stealthy bitterness and sickishness, so that even the smallest of
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_With a gesture of despair_.]  If my wife found
sees an absurd value in everything, and doesn’t know the market price of
some vague fear, he heard still further sounds below.
so potently at unopened and archaic vistas. No recognized school of
and the dusky form of a short, thick-set man facing him.
own heart’s-blood.  All that I ask of you in return is that you will be a
it became absolutely necessary that he should do so.
will certainly encourage them. They have the charm of being
truth appeared an hour later, when a hastily assembled group of armed
debate that some obscure lesion of the heart, induced by the brisk
and obscure at once, full of _argot_ and of archaisms, of technical
started up with a wild shriek of rage, and swept through them like a
there is always a soul.  And to mock at a soul in pain is a dreadful
attentively.
Years went over, and the Giant grew very old and feeble.  He could not
night, Miss Chiltern.  So simple and . . . suitable.
reams of different persons, some of
quite certain which one he was playing; but it made no matter, for,
the poor woman screamed about things in the air which she could not
Soul and body, body and soul—how mysterious they were! There was
splash--water--it must have been the well. He had left Hero untied
LADY CHILTERN.  Good-night, dear!  [_To_ LORD GORING.]  You saw whom Lady
had happened. It had flashed there a second, and a clammy and hateful
CECILY.
Street.  [_Crossing to L.C. and giving note to_ PARKER.]  There is no
promise rich and fruitful results. His sudden mad love for Sibyl Vane
some vague fear, he heard still further sounds below. Indubitably there
“Is it the real Dorian?” cried the original of the portrait, strolling
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  How clever you are, Mr. Hopper.  You have a
engagement.
closely locked barrier.
my dear daughter, of course.  [LORD WINDERMERE _bites his under lip in
evening is only just beginning.  [_Yawns and closes his eyes_.]
LADY CHILTERN.  Good afternoon, Lord Goring!
in bar-rooms, and used bad language. He was to be a nice sheep-farmer,
trust me absolutely, and I will help you in every way I can.  If you ever
o repass that ominous spot, I walked circuitously back to the
had come into the lad’s face that he had never seen there before.
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
have ever been reduced to such a painful position, and I am really
"THE TWINS ... AT ONCE DISCHARGED TWO PELLETS ON HIM"
powder, and Nahum feared that the trees would die before the poison
Ammi showed them the back door and the path up through the fields to
the great priest Cthulhu, from his dark house in the mighty city of
is the trade-name of the firm. That is all.”
artists, in the whole of Celtic myth and legend, where the loveliness of
desert, and knows everything; of the merchants, who walk slowly by the
garden.
embroidered with lions and peacocks and other emblems; dalmatics of
not a matter of old legendry at all, but something within the lifetime
lantern and pail for water, and had never come back. He'd been going
I am afraid I can’t stay more than a week this time.
MRS. ERLYNNE.  It makes no matter.  I’ll take a hansom.  There is nothing
was very much annoyed, and it was most ridiculous, the whole thing; for
CECIL GRAHAM.  [_Coming towards him L.C._]  My dear Arthur, I never talk
edited the correspondence in corroboration of what he had latently
gone away to Egypt six weeks before, but he had stayed behind, for he was
* * * * *
waiting to be seen and heard. Nahum would go soon, and he wanted Ammi
intrusion which Ammi had come to recognise and dread. All the while
present, was much struck by some of the analogies I drew.
sure he must have been right, for he had blue spectacles and a bald head,
from dark stars.
the singular clay bas-relief, which was then exceedingly damp and
[_Enter_ LADY MARKBY _and_ MRS. CHEVELEY.]
on all her wanderings.
now what you meant to-day at tea-time.  Why didn’t you tell me right out?
my best friend, and, besides, he is going to give me his wheelbarrow.’
life—that is the important thing. As for the lives of one’s neighbours,
When Lord Henry had sat down again, Mr. Erskine moved round, and taking
years ago now, was standing on the table, and the white-limbed Cupids
SALOMÉ.  Ce sont les yeux surtout qui sont terribles.  On dirait des
desperately wanted; so at length he set out in person, shabby, dirty,
stern and pale_.  MRS. CHEVELEY _seem rather amused_.]  Mrs. Cheveley, I
And at noon the Student opened his window and looked out.
[Stammering.] Oh! No! Bunbury doesn’t live here. Bunbury is somewhere
thought a crashing sound followed the breaking off of the exclamation.
He could not but wonder at his gleaning of the same impression from
wonderful tragic figure? Tears came to his eyes as he remembered her
ALGERNON.
by a moment’s folly, to lead again a decent life.
it, he wondered. He went towards the little, pearl-coloured octagonal
monstrous work, trembled with the responsibility he felt to be
had happened. It had flashed there a second, and a clammy and hateful
heads at Pentecost. It was a monstrous constellation of unnatural
fraudulent scheme in which she is interested.  The Argentine Canal, in
shrubbery was now bending. This, indeed, proved to be true; and the
exception of myself.”
southward where they were fully a month overdue. What this meant, no
other way could the soul of man, for whom the world was made, reach the
CECIL GRAHAM.  And Windermere knows that nothing looks so like innocence
, there
ctor, when we get back to town.”
Yes. The Brighton line.
On reaching a small secret chamber in the left wing, he leaned up
March 1st--our February 28th according to the International Date
LADY BRACKNELL.
ticking of the clock on the mantelpiece seemed to him to be dividing
[Looking round.] Quite a well-kept garden this is, Miss Cardew.
taken Agatha out on the terrace, and she is so delicate.
after cycles incalculable, the thoughts that spread fear to the dreams
GWENDOLEN.
JACK.
OSCAR WILDE
unchanged, would be to him the visible emblem of conscience. He would
Legrasse's men as they plowed on through the black morass toward the
are only six lines:
that strange days are never talked about in Arkham. It is necessary to
So the Nightingale flew over to the Rose-tree that was growing beneath
shuffled timidly to the door I could tell he was not glad to see me. He
had sought for prey.
After some time Dorian Gray looked up. “You have explained me to
“A new arrival, I see!” said the Frog.  “Well, after all there is nothing
could be; but beginnin' at the glen maouth, whar the trees bed moved,
“How do you know?” said the Mathematical Master, “you have never seen
whom he forced to dress in haste and fall into line between two rows
globule embedded in the substance. The colour, which resembled some
characteristic of the anatomy and habits of squirrels and rabbits and
The rural tales are queer. They might be even queerer if city men
wounded her for an age. Besides, women were better suited to bear
certainly.  But you are not to say foolish, insincere things to people.
The head-keeper came running up with a stick in his hand.
SECOND ACT
good looks left, at any rate.  No—what consoles one nowadays is not
ball of the season?
go over to the library and summon Rice and Morgan for a conference, and
found in the swamp.
About ten minutes later, the bell rang for tea, and, as Virginia did not
already deciphered. In the small hours of that night he slept a little
trying to say so, though they may not think it at the present moment.
is not fit for you to see, sir. It is not, indeed.”
white
Boston. Much of the material which I correlated will be later published
footprints in the snow. They were the usual winter prints of red
by some hateful current of vapour. Strange colours danced before his
VISCOUNT GORING, his Son
SALOMÉ.  Je baiserai ta bouche, Iokanaan.
when a loud rap came at the door.
e thinks one lives—out of reach of temptation,
and two of the farm-servants. The little Duke of Cheshire, who was
MABEL CHILTERN.  [_Sadly_.]  Then I suppose it is my duty to remain with
“Come, Alan, you must decide at once.”
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_Detains him by touching his arm with her fan_, _and
a method
CECILY.
waiting for the auction to be over. Others crowded round the swinging
tree here. The next day I bought this little ring in your name, and
_ and her crew an
horribly remote and distinct from mankind as we know it; something
decisively to the faltering group of frightened rustics.
which he had blundered? He dared move neither backward nor forward, but
dream of a strange, dank Cyclopean city whilst a young sculptor had
in the history of thought_.]
Ammi would not have told the men about the well if he had thought they
What passions had he bequeathed?
understand, not merely how beautiful ---'s action was, but why it meant
Transcribed from the 1913 Methuen & Co. edition by David Price, email
dim, hideous aura that stretched from a dubious birth to a cloud of
as he suspected, they were used as a cipher in a modern language. It
LADY WINDERMERE.
went from mouth to mouth that there was poison in Nahum's ground. Of
was not so feeble as I had expected; but his eyes drooped in a curious
he could do.  Christ, had he been asked, would have said--I feel quite
ideas I am here shaping for myself, I am quite right is shown to me by
e untouched.”
there was no change in the solvents to show that they had attacked
of faint and unhallowed radiance, tipping each bough like the fire
mysterious _juruparis_ of the Rio Negro Indians, that women are not
once to me.
authorities in the country and met with no more than the Greenland tale
was the fetish which this cult had cherished, and around which they
ascent of so steep a hill by so elderly a man, was responsible for
door.
The men sniffed in disgust at the fluid, and toward the last held their
the angel of death will have mercy on me. You will see fearful shapes in
rooms this morning, Mason?
curtained picture, an old Italian _cassone_, and an almost empty
with you there.  But do sit down.  And now tell me, what makes you leave
I sought him out the next morning, having heard that he lived alone in
is of course no new life at all, but simply the continuance, by means of
[Lane presents several letters on a salver to Algernon.
He hesitated a moment. “Is there a fire in the room upstairs?”
MERRIMAN.
wonderful thing than art.”
_stands watching them in terror_.]  My dear fellow, she has explained
hawthorn must blossom in spring, and the corn turn to gold at harvest-
May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet—
There is before me so much to do, that I would regard it as a terrible
saying that it had come down from horribly ancient eons before ever the
addressed to a dead girl. Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent
a dead professor. I hope that no one else will accomplish this piecing
some smart women with her.”
wind-whipped woods alone to his home on the main road. For he had had
desk.  I might find out by that.  I _will_ find out.  [_Opens drawer_.]
LE CAPPADOCIEN.
He could hear nothing, but the drip, drip on the threadbare carpet. He
in London I really like to have to listen to me.
but prattled on about the ship in which Jim was going to sail, about
CAVERSHAM’S _cloak for him_.]
stones on the other hills. Things like that brought down the beings
An' that ain't the wust, nuther. They's _prints_ in the rud, Mis'
Street over to the Albany to call on his uncle, Lord Fermor, a genial
the world in half-human flesh and blood?"
consistent have just as many moods as others have.
repassed with snail-like deliberateness. Then it was obvious that the
left all the chips made of the original fragment during the work. The
excitement is all over. The very essence of romance is uncertainty. If
_The literary and dramatic rights of_ “_Lady Windermere’s Fan_” _belong
never see a thing, only them trees an' bushes a-bendin'. An' when the
of some fiendish and unclean species of suction. With an associative
to me and seemed quite sorry when he went away. Have another
in mounting volume, but with hideously significant pauses. Then there
light, the mouth was a wide well of fire, and a hideous garment, like
such lilacs since the year I met you.”
Dark, frail, and somewhat unkempt in aspect, he turned languidly at my
asylums that only a miracle can have stopped the medical fraternity
is that we are all afraid for ourselves. The basis of optimism is sheer
UN PHARISIEN.
captives dans un filet d’or.  Une reine l’a porté sur l’ivoire de ses
“Possibly,” he sighed, “but they invariably want it back in such very
chorus of the distorted, hilarious elder gods and the green, bat-winged
_La scène devient tout à fait sombre_.  _Le tétrarque commence à monter
THE PREFACE
he averred, as he had never before smelt in all his life except near
because what he sought was no longer there. It had come to meet him,
and fore feet, and long, narrow wings behind. This thing, which seemed
began to undergo loathsome changes which no one could explain. Their
but there are other and more interesting bonds between men and women. I
peach-trees that in the spring-time broke out into delicate blossoms of
grotesque misshapen shadow on the spotted carpet showed him that it had
by any means an easy thing to attain to. There are only two ways by
of horror when he had first noted the change in the fatal picture, and
thrown aside and all men shouting and killing and reveling in joy. Then
college scientists were forced to own that they could not place it.
Candle; “the world is an enormous place, and it would take you three days
and the dogs' barking on the night Wilbur was born, but no known doctor
schooner began to sink from shots beneath the waterline they managed
The whole of Venice was in those two lines. He remembered the autumn
slept unconscious of their doom, and high above the rain and storm he
eternity. They had, indeed, come themselves from the stars, and brought
guilty spirit still haunts the Chase. The blood-stain has been much
that gorgeous array of specious lusciousness not one single jot was
LORD GORING.  It is a handsome bracelet.
very secret of life.  For the secret of life is
clouds seemed to be piling themselves up beyond the hills to the
necessary.
That evening, after a day of hurried cabling and arranging, I bade my
re the white marble angels were
“Love?”
chant that hideous phrase or ritual:
be conquered without any revelation to the world of the monstrous
which every malformed tree and every fungous islet combined to create.
qu’il a raison.  Mais ce n’est pas le moment de parler de ces choses.  En
him. “You are foolish, Jim, utterly foolish; a bad-tempered boy, that
drove by one night in ignorance of the country legends. What he told in
GWENDOLEN.
[Severely.] Cake or bread and butter?
FIRST ACT
“I saw something in it,” he answered, “something that seemed to me very
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_C._]  How do you do, again, Lord Windermere?  How
u think it fair that a man’s whole career should be
GWENDOLEN.
finer than we are ourselves? Or, perhaps, all these? And why was the
had barely poise enough to prompt the speaker.
of dark blue trunks or trousers on.
appearance. I wish you would tell me your secret. To get back my youth
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Is Mr. Trafford in his room?
it has my name on it.
book in your studio one day and chancing on that delightful phrase.
randfather’s
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Rising_.]  It is too late, Arthur, to say that now.
a great architect went mad, and poor Wilcox raved with fever in that
mentioned by the professor.
calling in such things from outside, and only very wicked people
self. Of course, they are charitable. They feed the hungry and clothe
The change in the quality of the daylight increased, and the crowd
shocking sounds and incidents.
they balance stupidity by wealth, and vice by hypocrisy.”
of liberation and restoration. All this Johansen did not
only verbs and pronouns.
peu de vin avec moi.  J’ai un vin ici qui est exquis.  C’est César
interest to one’s old age. I suppose they don’t know your name at the
squirrels, white rabbits, and foxes, but the brooding farmer professed
crag, he climbs the crag; if he has to walk in the mire—
she came to London six months ago without anything at all to speak of,
to which nobody but myself has access, a dead man is seated at a table.
to begin to-night.  [_Picking up fan_.]  Yes, you gave me this fan
it carefully before you speak. The happiness of more than one life
first interview the manuscript records daily calls of the young man,
Sometimes you speak so fast that I miss them.  I am particularly anxious
his parched mouth with a handkerchief.
should be here soon.  I must tell Phipps I am not in to any one else.
which tried to connect the latter with strange cults or societies;
CECIL GRAHAM.  [_After a moment’s hesitation and embarrassment_.]  Oh,
charmingly together.
gestures like live things. He hated them. A dull rage was in his heart.
“How shabby indeed!” cried the Town Councillors, who always agreed with
ncomplete, is to absorb into my nature all that has been done to me, to
LORD GORING.  [_Tapping his boot with his cane_.]  And public scandal
gods made Sibyl Vane for you. Without her you would have been
“Thanks, I won’t have anything more,” said the painter, taking his cap
For a decade the annals of the Whateleys sink indistinguishably into
I was in Dunedin; where, however, I found that little was known of
making ugly things for the poor, which I think so useful of them in these
terrace for to-night, my lady?
your household?
nothing will happen to Ammi. He saw so much of the thing--and its
shall see you both no doubt at Evensong?
“Do you still refuse to do this for me?”
MRS. ERLYNNE.  My name is Margaret too.
“Who art thou?” said the Giant, and a strange awe fell on him, and he
art.”
merveilleux.  Il peut tout faire . . . C’est étrange qu’il se soit tué,
and felt sad, for he was very fond of the
in his slow melodious voice. “But I am afraid I cannot claim my theory
has been impertinent enough to dare to propose to you before I had
He talked of his dreams in a strangely poetic fashion; making me
waiting at the corner of the street.  You must come with me and drive
passionately, devotedly, hopelessly.
windows.
exquisite sorrows. I grew afraid and turned to quit the room. It was
considered _en règle_.  Abroad, we are more civilised.  Will you see me
“It is extraordinary to me, Dorian,” said Hallward, “that you should
with him. How had she played that dreadful last scene?
So the Swallow plucked out the Prince’s eye, and flew away to the
ntensity of the dreams
state she must be in! And her only child, too! What did she say about
a woman in your own house?
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What you ask is impossible.
chance of spreading the potent powder with marvelous effect.
wa'n't all human hisself, I allus says to everybody; an' I think he an'
of tall stone pillars with which most of them are crowned.
know that those Whateleys were wizards--well, this thing is a thing
languages in Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island.
came here”; and he picked the rocket out of the ditch.
Only England could have produced him, and he always said that the
The rustics say the blight creeps an inch a year, so perhaps there is
whippoorwills which seemed to be assembled near the unlighted Whateley
“There is no good in prolonging this scene. I absolutely refuse to do
LADY WINDERMERE.  It is very kind of you, Duchess, to come and tell me
suffering.  It is what is hidden behind everything.  When we begin to
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_Brightening to a look of real pleasure_.]  I am so
ALGERNON.
weaknesses.  I was afraid that I might lose your love, as I have lost it
bubbling from a silver jar.
[Enter Lady Bracknell. The couples separate in alarm. Exit Merriman.]
mightier than Power, though he is mighty.  Flame-coloured are his wings,
with the brief dialogue that follows, were spoken in a thoroughly
Let nothing be lost upon you. Be always searching for new sensations.
doors of the coffee-house in the piazza. The heavy cart-horses slipped
The _Vigilant_ left Valparaiso March 25th, and on April 2d was
not masked by a bland optimism.
LE PREMIER NAZARÉEN.  Du Messie qui est venu.
expression! . . . But, look here, dear boy.  I don’t know what to do
I hear her hair has turned quite gold from grief.
the year 1764, she went off into the most piercing shrieks, which
be despised, mocked, abandoned, sneered at—to be an outcast! to find the
have got to make everything that has happened to me good for me.  The
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Moves to door R._]  No trouble at all, Mrs. Erlynne.
ALGERNON.
Pierce has never told them of anything he recalls from the strange
consultations of the monstrous diary brought about various changes of
afraid, one of her victims also.”
“You are speaking about things you don’t understand, James. In the
want to go to bed early.”
kinder marks in the yard, tew--great raound marks bigger raound than a
could have been no mortal staircase.
would gather, for an odd timidity about the deep skyey voids above had
bites induced a lasting disgust. It was the same with the melons and
evening to get flowers for the dinner-table, Mrs. Otis was not at all
the intellectually lost who ever argue. Tell me, is Dorian Gray very
“A great many, I fear,” she cried.
instant start on an investigation of the utmost thoroughness was
LORD AUGUSTUS.  My dear boy, if I wasn’t the most good-natured man in
merely of music, and everybody knows that the arts are selfish.  Still,
[Severely.] Had you never a brother of any kind?
re excellently matched.”
HÉRODE.  Vous voyez, vous ne m’écoutez pas.  Mais soyez calme.  Moi, je
think, a very dance of blossoms in blue skies.”
calming. He had come of late to do nothing but stare into space and
with your
In the end the three men from Arkham--old, white-bearded Dr.
that if this man wrongs my sister, I will find out who he is, track him
souviens! . . . Salomé!  Non, venez plus près de moi.  J’ai peur que vous
Let us preserve a dignified silence.
knowledge in identifying the hieroglyphics on the bas-relief. He
the only reason, indeed, that excuses one for asking any
. . . Represents what is best in English public life . . . Noble contrast
that art cannot express it. There is nothing that art cannot express,
LADY CHILTERN.  Don’t come near me.  Don’t touch me.  I feel as if you
LORD GORING.  [_Bowing_.]  Good morning, Lady Chiltern!
lines of research among philosophers and men of science, were of no
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Coldly_.]  Pray allow me to believe that you are
sipping a glass of vermouth and orange-bitters. “Dorian says she is
m’as jamais vue.
under which he can conceive
that are great are destroyed by their own plenitude. Besides, he had
you like. [Shows diary.] ‘To-day I broke off my engagement with Ernest.
The fools? Oh! about the clever people, of course.
impression that it is a form of European refinement, but Mrs.
ask me how I am.  It shows a wide-spread interest
after all this some wretched modern Americans were to come and offer him
underlying primary tone without a place among the known tints of earth.
dans le monde d’oiseaux si merveilleux.  Il n’y a aucun roi du monde qui
normal ideas of motivation stood confounded. Only old Zebulon, who
tion being from
savage crew on the yacht's deck, and being forced to kill them all,
what an age-old cult had failed to do by design, a band of innocent
a stone. And still the pale phosphorescense glowed in that detestably
ckingly frightful. Behind the figure was a vague suggestion of a
man.  I converted him in ten minutes.  He is going to make a speech in
LADY BRACKNELL.
those Whateleys were so fond of--the beings they were going to let in
_Cryptomenysis Patefacta_, Davys' and Thicknesse's Eighteenth Century
“I must go, Basil,” he answered.
PARKER.  Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Bowden.  Lord and Lady Paisley.  Lord
choked her.
his name, when you bear mine, all will be well.  Margaret, my love, my
CHAPTER II.
would instruct and catechize him through long, hushed afternoons. By
of the most vital importance for him to complete the reading of the
Court etiquette.
younger_.
“A person who, because he has corns himself, always treads on other
object of man’s existence. Besides, every experience is of value, and
[_Enter_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.]
"Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimeras--dire stories of Celæno and
happened actually, and to me, it seems far too wonderful for tears.
he found in the cabin of the yacht, in a small carved shrine of
to-night.  I suppose he is afraid of her.  Those straw-coloured women
fine linen that she may hide the pallid macerated body that is worn by
altered.
whatever one may say against marriage, it is certainly an experience. I
LORD GORING.  Oh!
he knew. This person was the late William Channing Webb, professor of
farmhouse.
image on the canvas? He would be safe. That was everything.
public. Besides, now that I know you to be a confirmed Bunburyist I
“My dear Gladys!” cried Lord Henry. “How can you say that? Romance
nothing but shadows, and I thought them real.
again and beg to be admitted, so that I might share in what I was
set him down now too low.  If he has fallen from his altar, do not thrust
LADY CHILTERN.  Compromise?  Robert, why do you talk so differently
was creeping slowly by the railings, staggering as she went. Now and
me.  Only triumph I am really interested in at present.  [_Kisses_ LADY
induce you to send it to any exhibition. You told Harry exactly the
papers and collections of my uncle, failed in any way to identify this
marriage.  A marriage in which there is love, but on one side only;
place a visit. There was no smoke from the great chimney, and for a
he averred, as he had never
_enters_.]
was the same as that of the nature of the artist--an intense and
upon it, tells me that it is May. . . .
We are clowns whose hearts are broken.  We are specially designed to
before, and the others consisted of Ernest Harrowden, one of those
mother had died a few months after I was born.  His eyes filled with
inexplicable perversity
telling me that I should have some serious purpose in life.  So I come
LORD GORING.  Don’t say that, Robert!  It was for your sake she came
ALGERNON.
in probing his strange dreams, yet had never explained the reason for
delightful theories.”
mistaking, for a house in which to live, an inn that is but suitable
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  What a tedious, practical subject for you to talk
ridicule.
“But I don’t want to be rechristened, Harry,” rejoined the duchess,
that. Ah! don’t mock. It is an irrevocable vow that I want to take. Her
seemed to him. One’s own soul, and the passions of one’s friends—those
Devil's Hop Yard in an awful shape. Haff on 'em's clean gone, an' nigh
reason is quite unbearable. There is something unfair about its use. It
eeler with purple annular markings, and with many evidences
good as given him my wheelbarrow, and now I really don’t know what to do
not any colour of our earth or heavens. And because Ammi recognized
much native superstition.
April storm; but his ministers on earth still bellow and prance and
has been well known for three centuries, since 1584 in fact, and always
terrace L.U.E._]  Mr. Hopper, I am very, very angry with you.
It is not in you, Dorian, to commit a murder. I am sorry if I hurt your
black fur, roughly resembled the hind legs of prehistoric earth's giant
first dined together, about the search for beauty being the real secret
“‘It is quite mended,’ answered little Hans, coming down the ladder.
dawn came, and the man had plodded back from his all-night search of
garden-girdled Babylon."
given to you, beg for love and it will be denied you—Oh! Arthur loves
Arthur Machen evokes in prose, and Clark Ashton Smith makes visible in
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  Peut-on le voir?
he fled back to his room as hard as he
o bright sapphires, and a large red ruby glowed on his
whole thing is hideous and cruel. Is the man ...?”
I hope, Cecily, I shall not offend you if I state quite frankly and
23rd and April 2nd--the period of young Wilcox's delirium. Scientific
dogs slavered and crouched close to the feet of the fear-numbed family.
the riddle was a deep and complex one, and that no simple mode of
walked boldly toward the kitchen. But he did not complete the walk,
Morgan--ascended the mountain alone. After much patient instruction
eet of you to say so! . . .
DUMBY.  We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the
était beau.  Il était même très beau.  Il avait des yeux très langoureux.
to manage her, but were beaten about by the storm of April 2nd.
On the nineteenth of October Nahum staggered into Ammi's house with
pockets_.  _He is looking rather bored_.]
would die. For every sin that he committed, a stain would fleck and
the letter_, _when_ PHIPPS _comes in_.]
sweetness. He had painted gourds filled with pebbles that rattled when
much sense, does it?
LORD GORING.  I am not quite sure.  For the future a more trivial
a single colour hidden away in the chalice of a flower, or the curve of a
Cecil, if you won't go back, I suppose you must come with me, but I must
yourself, Basil: you are not in the least like him.”
in the Frye yard, the wounded Seth Bishop cattle, and the enorm
headache after all, and a walk might do it good.
farmhouse set against a hillside four miles from the village and a mile
the essential idea and the accidental existence; it is not the
and then Ammi saw what had happened. The stoutest cord had broken at
one who really has considerable attractions left.  I thought you would
woodland, and walked unseen in open field, suddenly showing herself,
JACK.
“So little Hans worked away in his garden.  During the spring, the
it can’t be true—she spoke of enormous sums of money paid to this woman.
and ancient building with plastered front. A sad-faced woman in black
particu
quite remarkable how one good action always breeds another.  I have given
a morbid fancy. No traveler has ever escaped a sense of strangeness in
having seen the boy running sturdily up that hill ahead of his mother
assistance whatever in this mat
of policemen. Five of the worshipers lay dead, and two severely
"Good heavens! child, where have you been?" said Mr. Otis, rather
the brink of cosmic horrors beyond man's power to bear? If so, they
whippoorwills which seemed to be assembled near the unlighted Whateley
I am not worthy of it--not yet, at any rate.  I remember that I used to
the thunder above which they echoed--yet did they come from no visible
_First Published_, _at 1s. net_, _in 1912_
ALGERNON.
"Mr. Armitage," he said, "I calc'late I've got to take that book home.
cadence of the sentences, the subtle monotony of their music, so full
the water.
memory to remake him. She had sent her soul to search for him, and it
hopped, and laid the great ruby on the table beside the woman’s thimble.
-launchin'
ring of fire.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Which do you find it?
that it was he who was in the habit of removing the famous Canterville
“You are talking scandal, Harry, and there is never any basis for
my love out of poetry and to find my wife in Shakespeare’s plays? Lips
back in that odd way that used to make his friends laugh at him at
about Mrs. Erlynne.  She didn’t leave a rag on her. . . . [_Aside_.]
ALGERNON.
purpose_.  _A curse breaks from her_.]
with frightened expectancy the ceaseless, half-mental calling from
west. They were commencing to shine, too, though the tethered vehicles
coming to you about.”
Iokanaan.  Tes cheveux ressemblent à des grappes de raisins, à des
CECILY.
miniatures you have lent to the exhibition at the Dudley. Staveley
That my uncle was excited by the tale of the sculptor I did not
"And you will tell our children some day, won't you?"
autobiography.
Oh, no! A sailor’s existence was dreadful. Fancy being cooped up in a
One Survivor and Dead Man Found Aboard.
luxuriance not often found in settled regions.
great realities seemed commonplace or grotesque or lacking in style.  It
GWENDOLEN and CECILY [Speaking together.] Your Christian names are
* * * * *
Saturday, for I rely on you to arrange my music for me. It is my last
anything.  It is your chief charm.
to grow old! For that—for that—I would give everything! Yes, there is
objection to the hour?  I think the hour is an admirable hour!
appeared to shoot up from the black pit like a softened ray from a
estion. I am Miss Cardew’s guardian,
Armitage, having read the hideous diary, knew painfully well what kind
None of us men do look what we really are.  Demmed good thing, too.  What
LORD GORING.  Then I am sorry I did not stay away longer.  I like being
unspotted from the world. Men who talked grossly became silent when
height; on top of which, incongruous in its diminutiveness, rested the
hideous news.
houses in Their great city of R'lyeh, preserved by the spells of mighty
viewed it not long ago. It is truly a terrible thing, and unmistakably
passed through every possible mood of suffering.  Better than Wordsworth
Oh!
f every kind,
the lad, taking a light from a
English version which his grandfather had bequeathed him, and upon
must serve to liberate Their bodies. The spells that preserved Them
rather tedious.  There is
me with your breast against a thorn.
snorted at an odour which struck Stephen as wholly unprecedented. That
LORD GORING.  I am of a very nervous disposition, especially in the
sont dorés aussi, et leurs pieds sont teints de pourpre.  La pluie vient
_then lets it drop on the door_.  _She bows coldly to_ MRS.
“Still, the East End is a very important problem,” remarked Sir Thomas
the strangest instruments that could be found, either in the tombs of
My dear Algy, you talk exactly as if you were a dentist. It is very
LADY BRACKNELL.
be kind to people about whom one cares nothing. But she would have soon
my cell.  For prison life with its endless privations and restrictions
“I wish it were stopped for ever, Harry,” he answered bitterly. “The
the love of children and flowers--for both of which, indeed, in classical
first secret of the world for which the wise men had been looking, and
albino woman of 35, living with an aged and half-insane father
sin binds us.
himself, Basil Hallward, whose sudden disappearance some years ago
“The moral.”
“How horribly unjust of you!” cried Lord Henry, tilting his hat back
Amazing Stories September 1927.
by other laws than those of our sort of Nature. We have no business
'Nothing is more rare in any man,' says Emerson, 'than an act of his
if I then am not ashamed of my punishment, as I hope not to be, I shall
that only cares for people on their pedestals.  A pedestal may be a very
“‘A plank of wood!’ said the Miller; ‘why, that is just what I want for
consolation des arts_? I remember picking up a little vellum-covered
"Oh, often," cried the little girl, looking up; "I know it quite well.
the next morning to see the weird visitor from unknown stellar space,
LANE.
“Yes, it is my turn to dictate terms, Alan. You know what they are. The
“Christ! what a thing I must have worshipped! It has the eyes of a
to you to-morrow.  [_Exit_ LADY AGATHA _with_ MR. HOPPER.]  And now
HÉRODE.  Où est Salomé?  Où est la princesse?  Pourquoi n’est-elle pas
of any other girl there are no lengths to which I would not go.
picture extremely bulky, and now and then, in spite of the obsequious
He had looked at it through the window, and had seen that no stone
From the moment I saw you I distrusted you. I felt that you were false
would disappear completely.  And after all, Sir Robert, why should you
“When is she Sibyl Vane?”
to Cecily.]
time two policemen had arrived; and Dr.
fresh air.”  So he alighted just between the feet of the Happy Prince.
was something wrong with the sunlight I saw above that miasmal brink.
the Harpies--may reproduce themselves in the brain of
paper. Somewhere in the Euston Road, isn’t it? But I was afraid of
brought him a breakfast from the house he could scarcely dispose of a
guisa di fanciulla che piangendo e ridendo pargoleggia_.  He felt that
LORD GORING.  Yes.
Quite sure. [A pause.] In fact, I am going to be his.
d toys, however suitable or necessary to the dignity of the
“Ah!
references to some plan for the extirpation of the entire human race
sent home. Then you can do what you like with yourself.” And he walked
with a complement o
ur relations with Mrs. Cheveley have, as I said to you last night,
Good heavens!
TABLEAU
windows.
And when the children ran in that afternoon, they found the Giant lying
loathsome joy, of the delight they would have in dragging you down, of
ALGERNON.
Japanese-paper edition, with the Jacquemart etching. The binding was of
MRS. MARCHMONT.  [_Shaking her head_.]  Not in the smallest degree.
soon. And you can bring tea.
doing. If this girl can give a soul to those who have lived without
charm and culture, who had fallen, however, into bad habits of silence,
I fancied that she had.
come to me right out of myself, so I know that it has come at the proper
Then what is to be done, Cecily?
JACK.
boys, and, with the exception of the worthy Minister, the only true
us. We praise the banker that we may overdraw our account, and find
the house at eleven. No one had seen him come in again. Most of the
an' come up here ter see what yew thought best ter dew. Not but what I
article on Robert Chiltern’s career?
punished enough.
show it to you if you come with me.”
aversham’s bonnets.
mutilation of the savage has its tragic survival in the self-denial
name was Ernest. You are the most earnest-looking person I ever saw in
LORD AUGUSTUS.
younger_.  _Clean-shaven_, _with finely-cut features_, _dark-haired and
seen by several living members of my family, as well as by the rector of
innumerable Whateleys, decayed and undecayed, of the upper Miskatonic
igh above the rain and storm he
LADY MARKBY
Monday was a repetition of Sunday with Dr. Armitage, for the task
giant shape he had raved of in delirium. That he really knew nothing of
a sensation in the world.”
it is a silver well of water in the valley that shows the moon to the
LORD GORING.  It can be used as a bracelet.  [_Takes it from her_, _and_,
MRS. CHEVELEY               _Miss Florence West_.
merely an acquaintance.”
day was a whirlwind of preparation on the part of them all. Armitage
What has my husband to do with you?  With a woman like you?
and which have inherited many forms and traditions from the wizards of
also. I believed in everything. The common people who acted with me
on the table. Pray open it at page fifteen. We will repeat yesterday’s
runway was built up to it from the ground. About the period of this
Mary Farquhar, who always flirts with her own husband across the
at a meeting some time ago, and we passed resolutions condemning
now resolved to visit Mate Johansen in Oslo.
urs!
a studied malevolence which Ammi could not but feel had come from some
“Good resolutions are useless attempts to interfere with scientific
GWENDOLEN.
LADY WINDERMERE.  Five o’clock?  He knocked at my door this morning,
t
daughter leaning on his
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Merely listening.  I have a perfect passion for listening
“Then why won’t you exhibit his portrait?” asked Lord Henry.
health.
and the negative finally won. There were things involved which simply
sixty pearls. This taste enthralled him for
Square_.
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Yes, Gertrude.
courage.  You couldn’t stand dishonour!
connect events, he declared that the meteorite had poisoned the soil,
demmed climate, demmed cooks, demmed everything.  Sick of it all!
sandales de Salomé_.]
He frowned, and tearing the paper in two, went across the room and
it occurred to me to examine the personal ring which the professor
actress! How different an actress is! Harry!
JACK.
LE CAPPADOCIEN.  L’étrangler?  Qui a osé faire cela?
the meteor had poisoned the soil, but the illness of person and animals
very disappointing!  And I have come all the way from Vienna in order
only for a single act. I get hungry for her presence; and when I think
JACK.
PARKER.  Yes, my lady.
oped to build a house
straight where the blasted heath is now; but people ceased to use it
picture?”
round his throat, and started off.
grey and brittle.
Village failed to bring out much that was new; but a close survey of
questioning Armitage about what he knew of the thing, and no reply
me.’
An almost interminable manuscript in strange characters, written in a
their faithful cult _and their mastery of dreams_? Was I tottering on
all men in the world, to mix myself up in this horror?
“Was that a paradox?” asked Mr. Erskine. “I did not think so. Perhaps
He was a very selfish Giant.
ming by some obscure, vestigial instinct
nervously the clammy vapour which had brushed by him in that frightful
LE SECOND NAZARÉEN.  Il est partout, Seigneur, mais il est très difficile
the second, "Narrative of Inspector John R. Legrasse, 121 Bienville
shown by the meteor fragment in the college spectroscope, and like the
well punished for his morbidity.
here.”
the thin blue wreaths of smoke that curled up in such fanciful whorls
“When I was alive and had a human heart,” answered the statue, “I did not
book back in dranver_.  _As the does so_, _starts and takes out another
and looking up at the little clouds that, like ravelled skeins of
the United States Minister and his wife which had now taken the place of
t it was Ammi, on one of his rare visits, who first realized that
Cthulhu for a glorious resurrection when the stars and the earth might
air; such a fetor as all three of the watchers had smelled once before,
that gorgeous array of specious lusciousness not one single jot was
Oh, I couldn’t possibly. They would make you far too conceited.
glad to hear you say that.  Marchmont and I have been married for seven
“I won’t hear of it,” laughed Lord Henry, sinking into a chair. “From a
in her eyes. “What do you say to that, Mr. Gray?” she inquired.
[LADY WINDERMERE _bows coldly_, _and goes off with_ LORD DARLINGTON.]
writhing and struggling below the black roots.
filled me with a wild desire to know everything about life. For days
LORD GORING.  Life is never fair, Robert.  And perhaps it is a good thing
the hayloft
believe things that are not true.  In fact, it is quite unpractical, and,
Sir Simon survived her nine years, and disappeared suddenly under very
assembled men of science into a state of tense excitement, and they
“No, sir.
hideous picture and some cryptic writing. And as far as he could tell,
“‘But could we not ask little Hans up here?’ said the Miller’s youngest
était comme un serpent rouge dardant des poisons, elle ne remue plus,
need hardly say.  Art only begins where Imitation ends, but something
playing ninepins with his own bones upon the lawn-tennis ground.
that Bunbury could not live, that is what I mean—so Bunbury died.
roofs under which they and their ancestors were born.
which every malformed tree and every fungous islet combined to create.
*       *       *       *       *
spread. Is it fastened to the roots of those trees that claw the air?
LONDON
Sir Simon de Canterville alluded to in any way.
their own.
West of Arkham the hills rise wild, and there are valleys with deep
seen her die in the gloom of an Italian tomb, sucking the poison from
a morbid fancy.
LORD GORING.  [_Laughing_.]  You must excuse me, Lady Chiltern.  It won’t
immediately, so Ammi had to wait trembling while pail after pail of
Aux ambassadeurs de César il faut faire tout honneur, n’est-ce pas?
his gun. He jumped from the cart, and having told the groom to take the
of some intelligence, and had been second mate of the two-masted
lives.
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Leaning back on the sofa_.]  You look on me as being
left behind him--the earth-threatening entity which, unknown to him,
Oh! It is strange he never mentioned to me that he had a ward. How
wreathed in smiles.
yourself.”
These words had formed part of that dread ritual which told of dead
LADY WINDERMERE.  I mean it.
has taught you. Nothing will induce me to stir a step to help you. You
for ten minutes, so that you can have an opportunity for proposing to
“Of course; I knew I was discussing some interesting subject when I was
HÉRODE.  Mais non.  Je ne comprends pas ce qu’il a dit, mais cela peut
unholy iridescence from the slimy depths in front. Ammi had restrained
of his voice. Dorian Gray loathed him more than ever. He felt as if he
tell you.  Mrs. Cheveley gave me up Robert’s letter last night, and I
once, and the Reed made him a low bow.  So he flew round and round her,
towards the river.
a nervous little pop. Nothing was
dreams; for only thus could Their language reach the fleshly minds of
slatternly, crinkly-haired albino daughter.
only half-heartedly that they searched--vainly, as it proved--for some
ace in the house so secure from prying eyes as
about them, in which the dark fears of rustics were held up to polite
Then without warning the hideous thing shot vertically up toward the
thing to fight, and it can't multiply.
has, of course, for the poor, for those who are shut up in prisons, for
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  Dear Mr. Hopper, how nice of you to come so early.
Only with persistent knocking could I rouse the aged man, and when he
desire information. Until yesterday I had no idea that there were any
scandal as becoming as a new bonnet, and air them both in the Park every
emerald-green.
’t
time.  You must go
had shrunk, Nahum said as he pointed out the big brownish mound above
very good woman!
There are things which cannot be mentioned, and what is done in common
then, if you have always been sweet, and good, and gentle,
LADY CHILTERN.  [_With mock indignation_.]  Never bonnets, never!
of Professor Webb.
not a defence.
thought you dandies never got up till two, and were not visible till
ive me a red rose,” she cried, “and I will sing you my sweetest song.”
don’t go and dress, I shall have none this evening.”
body, they would have been the same....
all the information about it at the Foreign Office.  In fact, I sent out
house to-night.
to Australia, and I have so much to think of, I must say that you
D'Iberville, before La Salle, before the Indians, and before even the
vulgar to talk like a dentist when one isn’t a dentist. It produces a
“And where did you come across her?”
the public, but had left a long manuscript--of "technical matters" as
8
could find no voice; sorrow that was dumb.  I have
thing them men from the college dug outen the stone ... they smashed
air; such a fetor as all three of the watchers had smelled once before,
less as time passed, and the fragment seemed to be slightly cooling,
LADY CHILTERN.  No.  The letter must be intercepted.  That is all.  But
CHASUBLE.
this woman and me in the same breath.  It is an error of taste.
PHIPPS.  I understand, my lord.
_then lets it drop on the door_.  _She bows coldly to_ MRS. ERLYNNE, _who
Weakly rising, he gathered up the scribbled papers and sealed them all
of art_, _on the whole_, _but showing the influence of too many
enough, and if he is not a gentleman, whatever he knows is bad for
elements of weakness, or worse than weakness.  Supposing, for instance,
royaume?
to come--the trim white Nahum Gardner house amidst its fertile gardens
_starts_.  LORD AUGUSTUS _takes_ WINDERMERE _by the arm and brings him to
LORD WINDERMERE.  I _will_ tell her.  I must.  It would be terrible if
“I always agree with Harry, Duchess.”
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Calling after her_.]  Margaret!  Margaret!  [_A
evil must be something which grandmas had whispered to children
besides, he is going to give me his wheelbarrow.’
west. They were commencing to shine, too, though the tethered vehicles
Cela ne fait rien.  Il ne faut pas trouver des symboles dans chaque chose
"But _that_ ain't the trouble naow--that was only the start. Zeb here
is true,” he exclaimed, “and this is what you have done with your life,
Yet it was watching him, with its beautiful marred face and its cruel
Eh bien, il n’y a pas eu assez de morts.  Dites aux soldats qu’ils
LADY WINDERMERE.  Don’t come near me!
sledge drawn by six reindeer.  The sledge was shaped like a great golden
JACK.
until he was driven away. On his return he would sit in front of the
RMERE.  You are going to invite this woman?  [_Crossing to
burdened by his past? Was he really to confess? Never. There was only
and around that fearsome hill. Curtis Whateley was only just regaining
Lane: Mr. F. Kinsey Peile.
HÉRODIAS.  Faites-les taire.  Ils m’ennuient
brought to the poor, and the children’s faces grew rosier, and they
would light fires on the top of Sentinel Hill, at which times the
certainly was a marvellous sight.  In the farthest corner of the garden
treat me with more respect in the future. You have never behaved to me
husbands.  One can always recognise them.  They look so thoroughly
frenziedly back from his morning trip to Ten-Acre Meadow with the cows.
himself into an arm-chair and began to turn over the leaves. After a
Other traditions tell of foul odors near the hill-crowning circles of
over a year and a half later, recalled that the queer colour of that
old ring on his little finger.’
he said:
about them, in which the dark fears of rustics were held up to polite
. . in yellow covers.
urn?  You said you would be my friend, Lord Darlington.—Tell me, what
imself; that
“I don’t know,” answered Lord Henry. “I fancy that the boy will be well
like Oxford, had kept the background for romance, and, to the true
They's things in it I've got to try under sarten conditions that I
being immeasurably the stronger during the period of the sculptor's
LORD GORING.  Thanks awfully, but I think I’d sooner be engaged before
Leonardus Camillus had seen a white stone taken from the brain of a
Nuova_ for me.  Of all things it is the strangest.  One cannot acquire
huge, formless white polypous thing with luminous eyes; and squatters
“‘Hans, I am surprised at you,’ said the Miller; ‘friendship never
indignation.]
out his hand, took a piece of paper, and wrote something on it. He read
humanity is sometimes cruelly judged by the law.
wounded ones were carried away on improvised stretchers by their
Certainly.
about corruption. Now you shall look on it face to face.”
colours. That is all.”
a ponderous report at the court-house in Aylesbury, and litigations
who was always quarrelling with the cabmen about their fares. They made
Do not ask me for my opinion. I do not know--that is all. There was no
were “two golden apples, in which were two carbuncles,” so that the
every second as the _Alert_ gained impetus from its mounting steam.
The Old Ones were, the Old Ones are, and the Old Ones shall be. Not
velvet powdered with crescents and suns. Its curtains were of damask,
JACK.
certain mistiness around the altar-stone on the distant height. No
resolved to see. That is why I continued to feel that Wilcox, somehow
all his misery had been due had gone out of his
CECIL GRAHAM.  Come over here.  I want you particularly.  [_Aside_.]
“I wish she were ill,” he rejoined. “But she seems to me to be simply
ominously in the wind. Nahum's second son Thaddeus, a lad of fifteen,
For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night—
you are alluding.
in the library. First you took all my reds, including the vermilion, and
hansom.”
his trimmed jerkin and jewelled cap and acanthuslike curls, Grifonetto
were the dominant motive of his art.”
She seemed not to listen to him. She was transfigured with joy. An
you, but I will never forget you, and next spring I will bring you back
disappeared. Apparently Whateley had had no skull or bony skeleton; at
carried up-stairs. The whole family were now quite interested; Mr. Otis
asure in taking in a husband who
God! My God! Harry, what shall I do? You don’t know the danger I am in,
and where They shall break through again. He knows where They have
Nightingale made no answer, for she was lying dead in the long grass,
strange stories that were told about her lovers. Had he something of
faint, malign odor about the village street, as of the massed mold and
dull girl, with one of those characteristic British faces that, once
By H.P. LOVECRAFT
two tragedies.  One is not getting what one wants, and the other is
LADY WINDERMERE.  I don’t.  I know now I was wrong and foolish.
safe in your hands.  And I cannot have her sacrificed!
Sibyl Vane’s death before he had known of it himself. It was conscious
had been in his brain and in his passions. He felt that he had known
foot upon the ground in his boyish insolent manner. He felt a terrible
this sea-soaked perversion, and twisted menace and suspense lurked
of terrible aspect. His eyes were as red burning coals; long grey hair
of that nefandous well. Save for Ammi's dead horse, which they towed
But Johansen had not given out yet. Knowing that the Thing could
the
fill him with anger and alarm. His contrast with his squalid mother and
horrible images and hieroglyphs. I mention his talk about _angles_
living man, at any rate. I bore it all. Now it is for me to dictate
MRS. ERLYNNE.  [_Rising_.]  I am afraid I must go now, Lady Windermere.
The line is immaterial. Mr. Worthing, I confess I feel somewhat
and it had come in a way which could not be told. Nahum had dug a grave
[Exit Merriman.]
lunch.
and it was still alive after a fashion.
will not have to read long.”
Laisse-moi toucher tes cheveux.
would gather, for an odd timidity about the deep skyey voids above had
Ernest, we may never be married. From the expression on mamma’s face I
[LORD WINDERMERE _hesitated for a moment and looks at_ MRS. ERLYNNE.
He held the door open for them, and they passed out into the hall and
minion of Sixtus IV., whose beauty was equalled only by his debauchery,
ce had his cry and entry started up? Halted by
purely family matter, and concerned no one else."
JACK.
her, flung her arms round her neck, and kissed her. “Forgive me,
the buggy.
women.  There is no Mystery so great as Misery.
degradation I will not sink to, no pit of shame I will not enter.  You
of the tracks seemed to argue a passage in two directions, as if the
HÉRODE.  Enfin, cela ne fait rien!  Mais il faut le trouver et lui dire
current of vapour had brushed past him--and then poor Nahum had been
is your friendship so fatal to young men? There was that wretched boy
anything more definite than rock and ooze and weed was seen. Each
dreadful. But this picture will remain always young. It will never be
to describe; and it was only by analogy that they called it colour at
the study. I did not enlarge his knowledge in this regard, but sought
servant. I never liked him, but I had nothing to complain about. One
pulled desperately for the _Alert_ as the mountainous monstrosity
Won’t you come over, Lord Darlington?
terrace L.U.E._]  Mr. Hopper, I am very, very angry with you.  You have
Chilterns’, I knew you were the only person I had ever cared for, if I
1700.
I don’t remember anything about it.
Street of Pomegranates to a House of Gold and heard men cry on Nero
hellish outlines of the nameless monstrosity, puzzled over the unknown
and poultry were dead and the dogs had run away. These dogs, three
“He bores me dreadfully, almost as much as he bores her. She is very
The dog-cart is waiting, sir.
me tell you a story on the subject,” said the Linnet.
be to him what holiness is to some, and conscienc
most certainly shrunk, and even the sober professors could not doubt
laboratory; doing nothing at all and showing no occluded gases when
shown his secret? Were people to gape at the mystery of his life? That
on a desperate chance; and, setting the engine for full speed, ran
daughter and oddly bearded grandson stood by the bedside, whilst from
Lord Henry, with a strange touch of pathos in his voice. “But why
following Algernon.] I’m sure the programme will be delightful, after a
ascent of so steep a hill by so elderly a man, was responsible for
would have spoken to each other without any introduction. I am sure of
attraction, wouldn’t it?  You have a delightful opportunity now of paying
throat. I have seen her in every age and in every costume. Ordinary
Whateley's diary and read some of the strange old books he used to
like the devotion of a married woman.  It’s a thing no married man knows
thing is quite simple. Come, don’t work yourself into this fever. The
JACK.
pardon, Basil, but I didn’t know you had any one with you.”
now--better under water since the strange days. And with this opening
properties, and other things which puzzled men of science are wont to
the trees were so glad to have the children back again that they had
Gwendolen, it is a terrible thing for a man to find out suddenly that
Certainly, Miss Prism. My little task of reconciliation is over.
They had uncovered what seemed to be the side of a large coloured
of society, and who does not recognise dynamic force
whom he had told some of his conjectures and misgivings; and these two
I have my first wrinkle, I suppose. I know, now, that when one loses
great shapeless horror had shot into the sky. It was just a colour--but
bear your shutting yourself up like this.”
his stern eyes, “I shall show you my soul. You shall see the thing that
“The next day he was nailing up some honeysuckle against the porch, when
LADY BRACKNELL.
explanation of the extraordinary amount of suffering that there is in the
bird’s wings, and when he looked up he found the beautiful sapphire lying
Chase. It was generally assumed that the ghost had gone away, and, in
them ever quite escape.
finance from time to time.  Before five years I had almost trebled my
JACK.
more effective.
CECILY.
down thar--it got everything livin'--it fed itself on 'em, mind and
[LORD CAVERSHAM _goes out into the conservatory_.  LADY CHILTERN
now lying before the meeting.
CECILY.
but great eccentricity, and had from childhood excited attention
first trip outside the Dunwich region. Correspondence with the Widener
paints I used had some wretched mineral poison in them. I tell you the
or temptation is.  I am of clay like other men.  She stands apart as good
the erroneous reading of a word so unheard-of. This manuscript was
brought into his presence one becomes something.  And everybody is
ed.
entrance to the music-room_.  _The sound of a string quartette is faintly
blow with a hammer, and it burst with a nervous little pop. Nothing was
LORD GORING.  I have been thinking about nothing else.
really distressed him most was that he had been unable to wear the suit
the first individualist in history.  People have tried to make him out an
MRS. CHEVELEY.  Your old friend—and mine.
Lady Jane Barford.  Lord Caversham.
the transaction.
meeting; and so singular and hideous were the rites connected with
hypocrisy demands.  You have that moment now.  Choose!  Oh, my love,
musician. From the point of view of feeling, the actor’s craft is the
on meteoric iron.
think yourself strong. But a chance tone of colour in a room or a
charred spot marked the place on the wooden shelf where they had been.
under certain strange conditions. As for my daughter, she is merely a
shapes of art, the dreamy shadows of song.
joy, greater than any joy they brought, or could ever bring, to the
“You bewilder me. Let us talk of some one else.”
I prefer the other half.
chance, send round a note to Curzon Street.
Something very like fright had come over all the explorers before
him, as she died? No; she had died for love of him, and love would
dear. Style largely depends on the way the chin is worn. They are worn
to see it was to die. But it made men dream, and so they knew enough to
around him he must inevitably have turned a total maniac. In the
connected with Wilbur and his grandfather.
studying, or the wired flower that we had worn at the ball, or the
LORD CAVERSHAM.  With pleasure, and I’ll drive you down to Downing Street
might refuse to come. What could he do then? Every moment was of vital
LORD AUGUSTUS.  [_R._]  Now really, Mrs. Erlynne, allow me to explain.
hasn’t she got any demmed relations?  Demmed nuisance, relations!  But
going to ask me just now as Lord Caversham came in.
middle-aged mediocrities so common in London clubs who have no enemies,
dead, raced nimbly on in front, and dragged a hideous future from its
up this mornin', but he's got to go over to Whateley's an' see what's
facts of the world, like sunlight, or spring-time, or the reflection in
forth the prophecy of their return.
beginning, and concludes with the middle.  That is the new method.  I
Fifteenth Edition_ (1_s._ _net_) _1917_
LORD WINDERMERE.  You are sure in your heart.  But don’t make chasm after
Jack when he went to bite me, and Elam says he would kill me if he
pastured in the lot near the house, but toward the end of May the milk
On the evening of September second the last major barrier gave way, and
PHIPPS.  No, my lord.
by which we can multiply our personalities.
may be six months of pain, of disgrace even, but when you no longer bear
LORD WINDERMERE.  I am not called on to encourage Lord Augustus, I
anthropology in Princeton University, and an explorer of no slight note.
stricken friend, "It come from some place whar things ain't as they is
the new city water of Arkham.
"ITS HEAD WAS BALD AND BURNISHED"
anced round him with a puzzled expression. The room looked
worth having.”
the darkness some wandering sea-gull screamed. The horse stumbled in a
course, Dorian? And so will you, Harry? Or do you object to such simple
ordinary man could have handled without a secretary. This original
scenes and half-sounds not unlike those which Wilcox had described;
both brittleness and hollowness. One of the professors gave it a smart
“No,” answered the Linnet, “I don’t think he was distinguished at all,
calmly.] I always told you, Gwendolen, my name was Ernest, didn’t I?
ve not the smallest
standing a horrible spectre, motionless as a carven image, and monstrous
with haggard eyes for the reflection of the dagger that was to end his
dear, I really should.  She is just a little too attractive.  But where
bloodroots grew insolent in their chromatic perversion. Ammi and the
Dorian. But I am much obliged for the compliment, all the same.
revealed.
and a new road was laid curving far toward the south. Traces of the
when the sinister stars are out; and nothing could bribe me to drink
entire case, and could find no convincing common element to link the
like this buttonhole, Phipps.  Makes me look a little too old.  Makes me
fire, and make such a noise that nobody will talk about anything else for
de mon royaume, et je vous la donnerai.  Mais ne me demandez pas ce que
home.”
“My dear boy, the people who love only once in their lives are really
THE PERSONS IN THE PLAY
nationalities,
waited for people to come to him. But he always made an exception in
The duchess turned and looked at Dorian Gray with a curious expression
ceased. He sat upright in bed, astonished to find himself at home and
*       *       *       *       *
of the orgy fortunately deadened. Legrasse dashed swamp water on the
was talking.  In fact, he had a most distinguished manner.
can one?  And now I must go, dear.  Shall I call for you to-morrow?
Ammi would not have told the men about the well if he had thought they
Sydney, and had thereafter sold his cottage in West Street and sailed
f their lives.”
should have a very bad time of it.
are farms, ancient and rocky, with squat, moss-coated cottages brooding
inflict upon us bodily injury? Oh, least of all! _These terrors
from the moon back again to the pit, all livened by a cachinnating
the lad was his own creation. He had made him premature. That was
roots.
Motionless, and as one in a dream, sat Dorian Gray, gazing at her. Lord
the disciple whom he loved; the soldiers gambling and throwing dice for
A bitter laugh of mockery broke from the lips of the younger man. “You
CHAPTER XX.
the world-soul; the advantages of the baggage-check system in railway
ago. At other times he would call for the dreaded _Necronomicon_ and
had come to look for Miranda and had been met by Caliban.
Hardly had he finished this awful oath when, from the red-tiled roof of
most unpleasant mineral waters, merely to get Berwick out of town.  He
LORD WINDERMERE.  [_Takes card and looks at it_.]  Margaret, I _beg_ you
rites, must keep alive the memory of those ancient ways and shadow
decisively to the faltering group of frightened rustics.
for eloquence in others.  She thinks it a little loud.
raiment?'  A Greek might have used the latter phrase.  It is full of
my husband’s support.
and Cold Spring Glen; examining in horror the vast, monstrous prints,
had its own food on which it battened, and the imagination, made
swore that they swayed also when there was no wind; but even the
desired to keep at a distance. It appeared to Dorian to have but little
apparently very ancient stone statuette whose origin he was at a loss
outward-bound steamer that was coaling. The slimy pavement looked like
in the dripping mist. The public-houses were just closing, and dim men
you don’t know where the spring is.  It is rather difficult to find.
Windermere.  We looked upon _him_ as being such a model husband, but I am
marqueterie table.
Selby with orchids?”
back to you all right.
madness stole around.
this sea-soaked perversion, and twisted menace and suspense lurked
of which is regulated after an unchangeable pattern, so that we eat and
a year old.
form.
"Oh, my Gawd, my Gawd!" the voice choked out; "it's a-goin' agin, _an'
there, mostly primitive but good-natured descendants of Lafitte's men,
JACK.
them and on the terrace as well.
LORD DARLINGTON.  This woman has purity and innocence.  She has
grinned over the obvious mistakes. They wondered, too, why the writers
after incessant screamings to be saved from some escaped denizen of
*       *       *       *       *
he had an extraordinary passion for Shakespeare. He told me once, with
[_Writes something on the envelope_.  MASON _then goes out with the
influence was so insidious. Why has he never been able to move away?
natures like his can realise it.  When I was brought down from my prison
It was rumoured of him once that he was about to join the Roman
from the purple zenith to the altar-stone, and a great tidal wave of
common to two hellish rituals so many worlds of distance apart. What,
MABEL CHILTERN.  How can you say such a thing?
nighted woods like pestilential tempests from the gulfs of hell. Now
beautiful sorrows, and the mighty harmonies of Beethoven himself, fell
to other eyes. It had been locked, and I did not find the key till
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Picks up fan_.]  Allow me!
“It is an annoying subject,” broke in Lord Henry. “It has no
LORD WINDERMERE.  I entreat you.
CHAPTER XVI.
me, once. Why, once ... Oh, I can’t bear to think of it! I wish I had
is the reward of all good little American girls, and was married to her
sarabands over an accursed marsh; and its colour was that same nameless
Non.  Je n’entends rien.  Il y a un silence affreux.  Ah! quelque
LORD GORING.  I am delighted to hear it.  [_Bows and goes out_.]
love!—and you freed my soul from prison. You taught me what reality
the upper rud mighty nigh Seth's--a leetle t'other side."
of faint and unhallowed radiance, tipping each bough like the fire
going on.  I didn’t dare to make the smallest repartee, I need hardly
even the blackest of the African voodoo circles. Of its origin, apart
behind.]
Virginia trembled, a cold shudder ran through her, and for a few moments
Literary criticism is not your forte, my dear fellow. Don’t try it. You
that the bulk of it was in English.
him before, if it was as he suspected. Leaden with fear, his mother
pointed to some wooden sheds and beehives near the stone wall on the
of my city, and though my heart is made of lead yet I cannot chose but
with stars and garters, and elderly ladies with gigantic tiaras and
next night in his celebrated character of "Reckless Rupert, or the
that grotesque
Dorian Gray smiled. There was a curl of contempt in his lips. “Come
stones. The reservoir will soon be built now, and all those elder
five by six inches in area; obviously of modern origin. Its designs,
It is some silly infatuation.”
transformed into some nobler passion, and the portrait that Basil
says.”
Lord Henry elevated his eyebrows and looked at him in amazement through
“I fear you are right,” answered Mr. Erskine. “I myself used to have
horrible room.  Perhaps she told them the true reason of her being there,
With pleasure!
LADY CHILTERN.  [_Advancing to meet them_.]  Dear Lady Markby, how nice
happened that one evening little Hans was sitting by his fireside
wife will. You don’t seem to realise, that in married life
Acropolis, and clambered slipperily up over titan oozy blocks which
black velvet cloak, and was careful to use the Rising Sun Lubricator for
his hands, and wept.
of this abhorred area, but that location was bad enough; hence perhaps
Dorian shrugged his shoulders. “I am sick of women who love one. Women
attractive age. London society is full of women of the very highest
LORD WINDERMERE.  To his, now that I know you.
strangers--is that the natives are now repellently decadent, having
I see a far more intimate and immediate connection between the true life
all the woodwork in sight; steps, sides, exposed laths, and beams alike.
CHAPTER IX.
so let him reap. You must put away your diary, Cecily. I really don’t
laurel and of the wild parsley, which else had been of no service to men.
similar sores about the throats of the gray, unshaven old man and his
LORD GORING.  I adore political parties.  They are the only place left to
comme les miens, mais je vous les donnerai tous.  Seulement, il faut me
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  [_Excitedly_.]  I did not sell myself for money.  I
MERRIMAN.
LADY CHILTERN.  Has a ruby and diamond brooch been found in any of the
DUMBY.  I am—to myself.  I am the only person in the world I should like
ALGERNON.
locked away the _Necronomicon_ with a shudder of disgust, but the room
“How fond you are of saying dangerous things, Harry! In the present
there. The trees grew too thickly, and their trunks were too big for
I should feel it as the most poignant humiliation, as the most terrible
After a little while, he hailed a hansom and drove home. For a few
all the young men in England, and make the old men quite jealous, if
few. All of these, however, bore out the notes in full.
mother.  Only once in my life have I known a mother’s feelings.  That was
Windermere’s too much to heart.  Just take him abroad, and he’ll come
crept into my soul.
her lover’s lips. I have watched her wandering through the forest of
me so yesterday evening at the club.  You said
the charnel-house. With regard to little Virginia, he had not quite made
HAROLD                      _Mr. Goodhart_.
deeper within the wood of ancient legendry and horror. This man, Joseph
the earth, and They had had great cities. Remains of Them, he said the
who are made for exceptions, not for laws.  But while I see that there is
and hands, the really human elements in Wilbur Whateley must have been
followed at once by a clatter which told of a frenzied runaway.
CHAPTER XVIII.
of a demon galleon. The awful squid-head with writhing feelers came
and was about to rush forward, when he drew back with a shudder.
was not so feeble as I had expected; but his eyes drooped in a curious
feathery watchers rose and raced from sight, frantic at that which they
each spectator later described differently, there came from poor
although they never talk scandal, they—well, of course—they remark on it
all about was a mounting wind which seemed to sweep down in black,
your schooldays to talk over together.  Good-bye, dear Gertrude!  Shall I
of the visitors seemed so far unaffected.
through anything else!  At least that is the only way I can account for
of cowed quivering. In reply to a jumble of questions they only shook
you ever love at all.”
the perambulator was discovered at midnight, standing by itself in a
to the calumnies, for so they termed them, that were circulated about
welcome in contrast, and I marvelled no more at the frightened whispers
DUMBY.  Hope to goodness she won’t speak to me!  [_Saunters towards_ LADY
ALGERNON.
Mr. Hopper is very late, too.  You have kept those five dances for him,
little bird shall sing for evermore, and in my city of gold the Happy
LADY MARKBY.  Ah yes, I suppose it must have been at the Opera.  The fact
They would shut him up if he persisted in his story....
“Ahem! ahem!” he said, and everybody listened except the poor Catherine
and saw the gleam of a polished barrel, pointing straight at his head,
sounds most frequently repeated are those rendered by the letters
in the yard and the splash in the well--and now that well was belching
y
brandy-and-soda? Or would you like hock-and-seltzer? I always take
might to calm the hysterical sobbing of little Merwin. Zenas needed no
like a morning in May.
And with strange eons even death may die."
air, and that pillar of smoke from the valley far in the wood. And by
memorable sermon on the close presence of Satan and his imps, in which
may not forest or city behold the hand that smites. Kadath in the
University at Arkham had failed to get him the loan of a book he
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Well, sir! what are you doing here?  Wasting your life
was not quite dead, but twitched silently and spasmodically while its
LORD GORING.  There is only one person now that could be said to be in
shrubbery and saplings led steeply upward, and the seekers gasped when
difference between a caprice and a lifelong passion is that the caprice
bruit.  Je n’entends rien.  Pourquoi ne crie-t-il pas, cet homme?  Ah!
always be my friend. Of course, I am very fond of Harry. But I know
had come from the stars, and had brought Their images with Them."
ut I am not going to
little Frog swam away.
old Castro about the sunken, star-born Old Ones and their coming reign;
d’ivoire.  Les fleurs de grenade qui fleurissent dans les jardins de Tyr
anything more definite than rock and ooze and weed was seen. Each
“Pleasanter for you, I am afraid,” murmured Hallward regretfully. “And
I think that is rather mean of you, Ernest, I must say. [Opens case and
CHILTERN _strikes the bell_.  _Enter_ MASON.]
significant to my uncle formed the subject of the second half of his
of the Aztecs, that are hung in clusters like grapes; and a huge
kinds of beautiful sentiments myself, so there is a great sympathy
have a new ideal of life. She will represent something to you that you
“Let the fireworks begin,” said the King; and the Royal Pyrotechnist made
great shapeless horror had shot into the sky. It was just a colour--but
went out.
and one feels that they are of the same flesh and blood as one’s self.”
do with this matter, whatever it is. Do you think I am going to peril
thought—”
Daly’s. You fool! You should have killed him. He has lots of money, and
LADY WINDERMERE.  What do you mean?  You are insolent!  What have I to do
guardian of the gate. Past, present, future, all are one in
mist go astray.
he heard a nasty, slopping sound down there. Everyone listened, and
days. Here is the stain on the lining caused by the explosion of a
the children that it slipped back into the ground again, and went off to
occur again, if I can help it.
to sleep in.
PHIPPS.  The candles in the drawing-room are lit, madam, as you directed.
to lunch afterwards with Lady Branksome. She is a charming woman, and
_Sixth Edition_ (1_s._ _net_) _November_                        _1911_
go to sleep under a great elder-tree; and perhaps the little boy may fall
for a very good price, and then he returned home at once, for he was
was not with the group, could have done justice to the situation or
LORD GORING.
re-embarked at once for the Norwegian capital; and one autumn day
others.  I took pleasure where it pleased me, and passed on.  I forgot
What it is, only God knows. In terms of matter I suppose the thing
PREMIER SOLDAT.  Nous n’osons pas, princesse.
Algernon has nothing but his debts to depend upon. But I do not approve
Ernest! They are quite, quite, blue. I hope you will always look at me
that had vanished, and in another second they had vanished too. Behind
rava Portuguese from the Cape
LORD CAVERSHAM.  It is the secret of your mother’s happiness.  You are
“Why I was so bad to-night. Why I shall always be bad. Why I shall
regarding its focusing and use, they left the telescope with the
the time. Worthing is a place in Sussex. It is a seaside resort.
gaze upward to the point at which its idle straying had been suddenly
never can believe a word you say!  Why did you tell me you didn’t know
LORD CAVERSHAM.  Uphold it, sir?  How little you know him!  Why, he
soil, but it would soon be washed away. And as for the footprints and
ueen, the whole worked
and fore feet, and long, narrow wings behind. This thing, which seemed
then it would be vermilion, then a rich purple, and once when they came
Seth Bishop's cut in. His haousekeeper Sally was carryin' on fit ter
obstacle. Then, as September approached, the clouds began to clear.
blossoms of a laburnum, whose tremulous branches seemed hardly able to
England.
wondered if all the objects of the professor's questioning felt as
Yes, but you don’t say it.
. I wish I could believe that he had come to such a
of manners. When I see a spade I call it a spade.
LORD GORING.  [_Sitting down beside her_.]  Yourself.
too near the splotch of greyish dust.
The next day the Swallow flew down to the harbour.
unlike the run
[Sitting down on the sofa.] In the country.
you will. . . . I love you—love you as I have never loved any living
looked like a black cosmetic. In a few moments no trace of the
flower_.  _There is ripple after ripple of sunlight in her hair_, _and
at them, forgotten them. They had not influenced his nature. Then had
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Elle est comme une colombe qui s’est égarée . . . Elle
My poor wounded Cecily!
he relied despite his colleague's warnings that no material weapon
really went in and paid a whole guinea for the stage-box. To the
RMERE.  Won’t to-morrow do as well?
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  My dear Arthur, what a piece of good luck meeting
Greek feeling.  But only Christ could have said both, and so summed up
LORD WINDERMERE.  Have this note sent to Mrs. Erlynne at No. 84A Curzon
Giant was not wicked any longer, came running back, and with them came
what might have happened, he overcame his fears and paid the Gardner
behind the wainscoting. There was a damp odour of mildew.
So the men paused indecisively as the light from the well grew stronger
flooded for the new reservoir.
day, with now and then a drizzle of rain; and heavier and heavier
burden was always some terrible Cyclopean vista of dark and dripping
Robert Chiltern . . . most rising of our young statesmen . . . Brilliant
“Religion?”
architecture which flaunts its stuccoed front amidst the lovely
.  It’s best for me to see him before to-night.  I’m glad
He was obviously quite mad. After a pause, during which the flock of
such has fascinated and dominated art as no Greek god ever succeeded in
and barn. No one cared to remain there amidst the stench and the tarry
Great Cthulhu is Their cousin, yet can he spy Them only dimly. _Iä
the body of the Lord: I am not worthy of either.'  That moment seemed to
of his night-thoughts after a
the coincidence of the dream notes and odd cuttings collected by
“I will stay with you one night longer,” said the Swallow, “but I cannot
possibilities in your profile. The two weak points in our age are its
Armitage hastened into some clothing and rushed across the street and
prostrate thing, and the great black eyes fell in appallingly.
[_Enter_ LADY CHILTERN.]
in enigmatical sense-impacts uninscribable save as gibberish. The two
spasmodically, clawing in convulsive and epileptic madness at the
when the American Archeological Society held its annual meeting in
The admiralty will institute an inquiry on the whole matter
hunting-crop across his face. His brows knit together into a wedge-like
MRS. CHEVELEY.  [_In her most nonchalant manner_.]  My dear Sir Robert,
sir.” And Mr. Hubbard tramped downstairs, followed by the assistant,
in the yard and the splash in the well--and now that well was belching
colour.
the end. At the time I saw no reason to dissent from this dictum, but
The average of their intelligence is wofully low, whilst their annals
might fly between the twilight and the dawn; but for me the world is
and careful study, was between seven and eight inches in height, and of
I was going to be wonderful. I found that I could do nothing. Suddenly
A cry of terror broke from Dorian Gray’s lips, and he rushed between
suddenly, don’t they?
he
that great country,” he said to Lady Agatha. “I have travelled all over
moment the visitor was apprehensive of the worst. The aspect of the
d’ébène j’ai deux coupes d’ambre qui ressemblent à des pommes d’or.
than I am. She never gets confused over her dates, and I always do. But
pasturage where Mr. Bishop's cows had been left out all night.
disappeared or was killed. Speakers would not be exact; and because
like the men from the college last year says the meteor stone was.
the cattle that so swiftly disappeared. Then they shuddered as they
LADY MARKBY.  [_Shaking her head_.]  Ah!  I am afraid Lord Brancaster
LE JEUNE SYRIEN.  Ne restez pas ici, princesse, je vous en prie.
race of beings from another dimension. He would shout that the world
For these treasures, and everything that he collected in his lovely
years younger than her own daughter, she is perfectly satisfied.
Suddenly he rubbed his eyes in wonder, and looked and looked.  It
Three men were swept up by the flabby claws before anybody turned. God
chant meant only this: "In his house at R'lyeh dead Cthulhu waits
impossible?
panel at the top of the staircase flew back with a loud noise, and out
suggest fugitive glimpses of strange landscapes, and in one case there
He made no answer at first, but remained quite still. The knocking
conservatory on to the terrace. As the glass door closed behind Dorian,
LADY CHILTERN.  I never change.
Dieu.  C’était plutôt l’ombre de Dieu qu’il a vue.
said simply.
not so fearful.
LORD GORING.  Your wife will forgive you.  Perhaps at this moment she is
[Rings bell.]
their faithful cult _and their mastery of dreams_? Was I tottering on
from dark stars. That cult would never die till the stars came right
something. However, that could easily be altered.
curled his lip and said that you might have the most artistic tastes,
The elder woman grew pale beneath the coarse powder that daubed her
against all the sins of which you have grown tired. You are much too
gossip. Thaddeus, an especially sensitive youth, suffered the most.
SECOND SOLDAT.  Et le troisième qui est un vin sicilien.  Ce vin-là est
grande foule le suivait.  Il avait même de disciples.
LORD DARLINGTON.  You are far too young!
could win.  I hated, I despised her.  She stole things, she was a thief.
ogy. On the contrary, his wish for enlightenment was prompted
“Press closer, little Nightingale,” cried the Tree, “or the Day will come
to bark.
must come into my work, of fuller memory of words perhaps, of richer
MRS. CHEVELEY.  No; you must settle now!
cryptic poison from the well--seething, feeling, lapping, reaching,
“I shall love him for ever!” she cried.
romance ‘A Margarite of America’, it was stated that in the chamber of
that!”
The day after that--all this was in June of '82--the professors had
man's life in this place.
the college had found that stone to be, several farmers spoke about the
married on the very day on which I am to be let off.  Really, if it had
might to calm the hysterical sobbing of little Merwin. Zenas needed no
Lady Hampshire’s, I found myself seated at dinner next the lady in
silver Faun. You will like them always. How long will you like me? Till
sent him flying home. Mrs.
interested in your poor brother Ernest? Won’t she feel his loss a good
“‘Well, really,’ answered the Miller, ‘as I have given you my
visible form, and make them move before one! What sort of life would
whether the shadows on the grass were really mauve or not.  But they saw
breathing that told of an end not far off. The shapeless albino
version, as printed in Spain in the Seventeenth Century. He had never
window behind him.
noisome up there, and no sound could be heard from any direction. Of
me without mist or veil, I cannot tell. But I know that as I worked at
base huddled still closer, and winced as if in expectation of a blow.
suppose.
Stain Remover and Paragon Detergent will clean it up in no time," and
died, and about which the mate Johansen was so secretive? What had the
And he went into his room, and lay down on his little pallet-bed, and
to-day, and that at all costs it must not reach him.  [_Goes to the
attention at all to her lessons.
turns red by lamplight, the cymophane with its wirelike line of silver,
arrived this morning at its wharf in Darling Harbour, having in tow
One must have fed itself and escaped, and probably there was another
are called out of the earth when a bullock is sacrificed at the proper
It was still gruesomely dark when, not much over an hour later, a
“Isn’t he incorrigible?” cried Dorian, leaning forward in his chair.
cérémonies, et des barbares qui boivent toujours et jettent leur vin sur
months.
The veterinary shivered, and walked to the front door to drop the heavy
present. There will be a large accumulation of property.
He had not long survived his return, said his wife, for the doings at
in the house was a breath from regions unnamed and unnameable. Ammi
“Yes.”
extravagance of the whole subject led me to adopt what I thought the
“And here is actually a dead bird at his feet!” continued the Mayor.  “We
The only persons who saw Wilbur during the first month of his life
Cachons-nous dans notre palais, Hérodias.  Je commence à avoir peur.
of a fire; but why had nothing new ever grown over those five acres of
curious.”
loved much,' it would have been worth while dying to have said it.  His
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  You are mad.  What have I to do with her intrigues
placed the baby in the hand-bag.
like.  It is because your husband is himself fraudulent and dishonest
“Pace gives life,” was the _riposte_.
understand it.
Particularly the person.
LADY BRACKNELL.
giant shape he had raved of in delirium. That he really knew nothing of
and orchards.
simply as a portion of your property which has been restored to you
and he feared the fall of night over that accursed place, but it was
about whom the most frightful tales of wizardry had been whispered
around him he must inevitably have turned a total maniac. In the
pictures and charts in his grandfather's books, while Old Whateley
stars had come round again to the right positions in the cycle of
LORD GORING.  Really?  What sort of work?
country. There are no temptations there. That is the reason why people
to an absolutely definite science.
LANE.
increased strength and the special signs of purpose it was soon to
Dead! When did Mr. Bunbury die? His death must have been extremely
brandy-and-soda? Or would you like hock-and-seltzer? I always take
personne.  Mais le tétrarque a formellement défendu qu’on lève le
and as a natural consequence he always looks absolutely delightful.
while he hissed into her trembling husband's ear the awful secrets of
No nice girl should ever waltz with such particularly younger sons!  It
"Gawd," he gasped, "I telled 'em not ter go daown into the glen, an' I
Oh!
“Stop, Basil! I won’t hear it!” cried Dorian, leaping to his feet. “You
“I prefer the mistakes of to-day,” she answered.
How can you sit there, calmly eating muffins when we are in this
LADY WINDERMERE.  Ah, give me time to think.  I cannot answer you now.
lives.
over again. Look at that great, honey-coloured moon that hangs in the
the masonry of that charnel shore that was not of earth the titan Thing
out momentarily.
some formula to check the peril he conjured up.
in the ritual murders, and averred that the killing had been done
“You have
of the countryside. For this reserve or melancholy no cause could be
hands at my throat.
There was a brief silence, and in that pause the scattered senses of
en?
I don't regret for a single moment having lived for pleasure.  I did it
the like, know nothing about art, and are the very salt of the earth.  He
Above these apparent hieroglyphics was a figure of evidently pictorial
moment. At the time when Miss Prism left me in the hand-bag, had I been
down, and kill him like a dog. I swear it.”
as Artist_ it is set forth in many colours; in _The Soul of Man_ it is
que vous aussi, Narraboth, est-ce que vous aussi vous en avez peur?
And he kissed the Happy Prince on the lips, and fell down dead at his
sculptured.  He passed by the palace and heard the sound of dancing.
puisse vous donner votre salaire.  Ah! je paie bien les danseuses, moi.
ethical sympathies. An ethical sympathy in an artist is an unpardonable
face is gittin' to hev that colour sometimes towards night ... an' it
Cheveley?
“Here is a sovereign for you,” said Dorian. “You shall have another if
and I hear all these
he had sought to depict in his dream-sculpture. Reference to this
cabin and attended to a few matters of food for himself and the
tétrarque, commandez à vos soldats de m’apporter la tête d’Iokanaan.
relations, even the humblest of them.  Whenever we appear we excite great
and bedded itself in the ground beside the well at the Nahum Gardner
influence was so insidious. Why has he never been able to move away?
Dorian Gray hurried along the quay through the drizzling rain.
top of the mountain. Curtis, who had held the instrument, dropped it
of thought.
LADY WINDERMERE.  Lord Darlington!
Oh, that’s nonsense, Algy. You never talk anything but nonsense.
the one thing worth having, the one supreme pleasure worth knowing, the
Windermere.  They are vulgar.  I saw my chance, it is true, and took it.
ALGERNON.
to rescue the fallen telescope and wipe it clean of mud. Curtis was
being so; and that of the lives that had crossed his own, it had been
creature that bore within itself strange legacies of thought and
“Who are her people?” grumbled the old gentleman. “Has she got any?”
England's traditional "salt of the earth"--gave an almost completely
enough to make it rise head and shoulders above
pieces of literature it has been our good fortune to
That is nonsense. If I marry a charming girl like Gwendolen, and she is
at horrid woman.  She dresses so
JACK.
The girl laughed again. The joy of a caged bird was in her voice. Her
seulement le titre.  C’est un des titres de César.
inquiries of my uncle after encountering the sculptor's data have come
dares to do this because his house is so near the open fields and the
scattered the bodies of dead whippoorwills.
with frightened expectancy the ceaseless, half-mental calli
after all horizontal--and the men wondered how any door in the universe
it together as a ballad; in the prose poem of the man who from the bronze
from matter was a mystery, and the union of spirit with matter was a
fortune.  Since then everything that I have touched has turned out a
ty.
Later on we'll try it. It's a frightful thing to have alive, but it
Clouston, the duchess’s brother, jerking two spent cartridges out of
have gone back to the life of degradation you and he had prepared for
the Diplomatic, things were much better. But I hear they let them in
when the sinister stars are out; and nothing could bribe me to drink
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  My poor child!  Agatha, darling!
own.'  It is quite true.  Most people are other people.  Their thoughts
ibrary."
"Wal, all right, ef ye feel that way abaout it.
that would be equally fatal.  It would mean that I would always be
my sake she went to Darlington’s rooms.  Called first at the Club—fact
[Smiling.] But I see dear Dr. Chasuble coming up through the garden.
undeniable significance to the various turns of events so carefully
is a silver well of water in the valley that shows the moon to the
sleep.
“Dorian,” said Lord Henry, “I had better tell them that the shooting is
I knew it! there is not a word of truth in this stupid story.  [_Puts
A mountain walked or stumbled. God! What wonder that across the earth
But speech gave place to gasps again, and Lavinia screamed at the
ils sont rouges ces pétales!  On dirait des taches de sang sur la nappe.
LORD GORING.  The drawback of stealing a thing, Mrs. Cheveley, is that
know what tears were, for I lived in the Palace of Sans-Souci, where
ou blindly,
really romantic end as you suggest, but I can’t.
things, with which it would be better to have nothing to do. When a
_Eighth Edition_ (1_s._ _net_) _1912_, _Ninth and Tenth
indeed.  I am afraid I had rather a hard time of it, but now the spring
anything more about the matter.  I hate people who cry over spilt milk.
too, is full of wild rumor and legendry, and a fantastic painter named
LORD WINDERMERE.  And as for your blunder in taking my wife’s fan from
a special Commission to inquire into the matter privately, and they
the space clear, the carriage had swept out of the park.
“Well, then, you and I will go alone, Mr. Gray.”
“They must interest you, Dorian. Every gentleman is interested in his
on the mountains that May Night?
from Carthage and given her in mystic marriage to the Sun.
at the bottom they saw a fearsome sight. All the farm was shining
LORD DARLINGTON.  A man who knows the price of everything and the value
MRS. CHEVELEY.
the House, so glad.  I made it thinking that public disgrace might be the
always bores me to death.  I prefer other people’s.
very alluring in appearance. In fact, if I may speak candidly—
SECOND SOLDAT.  Un très ancien prophète de ce pays, princesse.
soul.  That I cannot forgive you.  That was horrible.  For that there can
LORD GORING.  [_Taking his arm_.]  Oh! just go in here for a moment,
“Ah! I know nothing about the feelings of parents,” said the Water-rat;
hardly read them without crying a little.
for convenient pitching. And all the while the vegetation was turning
les rois de la terre auront peur.
darkening the sun as it slunk away into the shrunken and gibbous sky
T CHILTERN.  What explanation have you to give me for the
across the garden.
in the corners does not re-appear in his tale as a moving object.
second to be lost.  Lord Darlington may return at any moment.
UN CAPPADOCIEN
put that poor little boy on the top of the tree, and then I will knock
good, and would watch over him. She would pray for him, too, and in a
place—otherwise I wouldn’t bother you about it.”
ressemble à une tombe . . . [_aux soldats_]  Vous ne m’avez pas entendue?
in the building, and had manifested since then only alternations of
love for a whole week—not, in fact, since Madame de Ferrol left town.”
and even removed the attic floor, leaving only one vast open void
LADY BRACKNELL.
“I hope my dress will be ready in time for the State-ball,” she answered;
and in the yard outside the no less frightened herd were pawing and
It is a great bore, and, I need hardly say, a terrible disappointment
LADY CHILTERN.  I?  In danger?  What do you mean?
very foolish of you. Nothing annoys people so much as not receiving
“My dear old Basil, you are much more than an acquaintance.”
[Cecily looks angrily at her, takes up the tongs and puts four lumps of
afraid. I can’t tell you what it was, but it was terrible. I said I
LORD GORING.  Of course.  And a very sensible remark for Mrs. Cheveley to
something in the clear, pine-scented air of that winter morning that
manger du fruit avec moi.  J’aime beaucoup voir dans un fruit la morsure
and sees_ SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.]  Ask him what the origin of his fortune
Well, I can’t eat muffins in an agitated manner. The butter would
Gertrude Chiltern’s.  I remember it perfectly.  The ten commandments in
LADY CHILTERN.  Yes; he is in the conservatory.
the silence, the solitude, the shame--each and all of these things I have
answer. Except for a light in one of the top windows, the house was all
Raymond Legrasse, and he was by profession an inspector of police. With
oneself, so it is also in the ethical evolution of one's character.  I
slid greasily into the water and began to pursue with vast wave-raising
LADY BRACKNELL.
and would not be surprized to learn of secret methods and poison
you.”
It is the last thing left in me, and the best: the ultimate discovery at
first romance of your life. You will always be loved, and you will
of the bands in the meteor's strange spectrum, was almost impossible
[Severely.] Really? Your mother, no doubt, or some female relative of
The dog-cart is at the door, sir. [Algernon looks appealingly at
She looked at him in wonder and laughed. He made no answer.
He was very much admired indeed.
ing it,
which he was offered in exchange for an admission of membership in
down. The scenery, judged by any ordinary esthetic canon, is more
that my uncle's death was far from natural. He fell on a narrow hill
of other people.
rymen never recognize a description.”
Good heavens, my dear boy, don’t look so tragic! The secret of
LADY BRACKNELL.
real to him. Things of which he had never dreamed were gradually
mystical, and in ambergris that stirred one’s passions, and in violets
read in the papers that she had married a rich man.  You saw your hideous
outset of my life freedom, and freedom is everything.  You have never
everybody. It was a pleasure even to see him.
she passed through the crowd. He felt glad at what he had said.
talking nonsense.
What are you going to do?
The _Emma_, in ballast, had cleared Auckland on February 20th, and had
long avenue. His head was leaning on his hand, and his
heureux, n’est-ce pas?  Votre fille va danser pour moi.  N’est-ce pas que
display a contempt for the ordinary decencies of family life that
night. The lamp cast fantastic shadows on the wall and staircase. A
the Indian circles on the hills, and which could not come from anything
married off her daughters to some rich, rather elderly men, she devoted
Parker, Butler
“But the storm grew worse and worse, and the rain fell in torrents, and
‘Pooh,’ like the critic.  However, I can say it now”; so he shouted out
Worthing? Your brother was, I believe, unmarried, was he not?
the _Necronomicon_, in those parts which Wilbur had sought so avidly,
LADY WINDERMERE.  Lord Darlington, you annoyed me last night at the
anxious.
Those without the telescope saw only an instant's flash of gray
of the dead. He loved to stroll through the gaunt cold picture-gallery
ehold the hand that smites. Kadath in the
LADY WINDERMERE’S FAN
separated things--in this case an old newspaper item and the notes of
horror, whatever it was, had not yet entirely spoiled that marvellous
Nabby, Ammi? ... my head's no good ... dun't know how long sence I fed
rang out a scream from a wholly different throat--such a scream as
you!
TIGELLIN.  On rit beaucoup d’eux à Rome.  L’empereur a fait un poème
choose?
Weird Tales, February 1928.
it! But be quick. Tell me everything at once.”
he wrote of her bombardment and sinking. Of the swarthy cult-fiends
been found on the flower-beds, the gardeners would have
number in Belgrave Square?
out into the garden.  But when the children saw him they were so
MISS PRISM.
written, or badly written.
suis très calme.  Je suis tout à fait calme.  Écoutez.  J’ai des bijoux
Virginia made no answer, and the ghost wrung his hands in wild despair
“I hope the girl is good, Harry.
to tell my husband everything.  It is my duty.
us a chance he had met in Basil’s studio, or could be
Certainly. [Gwendolen beats time with uplifted finger.]
away our iniquities.’ Let us say that together. The prayer of your
SALOMÉ.  Je n’ai pas soif, tétrarque.
and loathsome of visage. It was not till they had examined the rings
Yet one had ancestors in literature as well as in one’s own race,
with his intonation or with the internal organs that produced the
Mrs. Erlynne is!  She is coming to lunch on Thursday, won’t you come too?
e to
from Vienna, I shall let you know the result.  It is a chance, just a
The day after that--all this was in June of '82--the professors had
mutter many curious prophecies about its unusual powers and tremendous
JACK.
went from mouth to mouth that there was poison in Nahum's ground. Of
everyone was listening still when It lumbered slobberingly into sight
I am sorry to say they have not been on good terms for a long time.
ALGERNON.
felt a little disappointed that he had not joined the group. It would
months after the marriage. There was an ugly story about it.
r two lives.  My coming
to do with you.  Remember you are to keep Windermere at your club, and
ow deliberation. There was a look of contempt in the steady
good hats are made out of nothing.”
as demoralising as cigarettes, and far more expensive.
d’Égypte où les dragons trouvent leur asile.  On dirait des lacs noirs
out of respect to the feelings of the two noble families, every attempt
ey
Certainly, mamma.
thought it was merely the storm.  But a second rap came, and then a
maintenant.
that life has exhausted him. Lord Henry is very wicked, and I sometimes
which the atmosphere seemed surcharged.
dusty grey desert remained, nor has anything ever grown there since.
rhythmical surging or lapping, as of the waves on some level beach. The
him. And by the way, Harry, talking about silly marriages, what is this
SIR ROBERT CHILTERN.  Gertrude, here is the draft of my letter.  Shall I
little Hans.
Harry. What on earth induced her to behave as she did, I never could
the curtain from its rod and flung it on the ground.
foot of the bed, and stab himself three times in the throat to the sound
too long dressing.” She danced out of the door. One could hear her
suggest true fever rather than mental disorder.
all that! As he thought of his aunt, an idea seemed to strike him. He
are spelt differently, and mean quite different things.  Everybody can
terrible and impotent rage; bitterness and scorn; anguish that wept
own as sweet as that of viol or of lute. Mere words! Was there anything
success.
secrets of life, tell me how to charm Sibyl Vane to love me! I want to
stumbled in the course of my daily round, for it was an old number of
LADY WINDERMERE.  [_Rising_.]  She is sure to tell him.  I can fancy a
head downward, the oddly marred bodies of the helpless squatters who
“You know nothing then?”
detention, the third time to pass into a prison for two years.  Society,
the most o' ye only tell abaout. I calc'late her man is as good a
statuette_, _and would be rather annoyed if she were told so_.]
they saw that even the most perpendicular places did not deflect the
suppose, Gertrude . . . I suppose I should retire from public life?
have really everything in common with America nowadays, except, of
authenticity?
thing visible toward the last. One case, which the note describes with
sealed upper part, and from bits of discarded lumber people concluded
About my what?
So he returned to his room and pulled out a great dusty book, and began
in the house was a breath from regions unnamed and unnameable. Ammi
is no language for such abysms of shrieking and immemorial lunacy,
for his own.
smile and their fashionable manner. They are quite obvious. But an
pizened the whole place ... dun't know what it wants ... that round
It was in the township of Dunwich, in a large and partly inhabited
oing
Questioning tactfully, Ammi could get no clear data at all about the
finished,” he cried at last, and stooping down he wrote his name in
the form itself; it is no echo coming from a hollow hill, any more than
The man who took me in to dinner talked to me about his wife the whole
an odd reluctance about approaching, and did so at last only because
she is ruining poor Windermere.  And Lady Windermere, who goes in for
plant sways in the water. The curves of her throat were the curves of a
been spilt on that spot."
of you the other night at Lady Rufford’s dancing till four o’clock in the
attracted by her slender waist that he had stopped to talk to her.
are not quite old enough to do that. [Algernon retires to the
have got to promise me to suppress your report, and to speak in the House
t?
the poets, he is the leader of all the lovers.  He saw that love was the
I don’t think I could break it off now that I have actually met you.
generation into which I was born was tedious. Some day, when you are
moment, then he turned back and took it from the table. He could not
Basil. I should like to have something more of her than the memory of a
mes in_.]
in England; but I know you Americans don't care for things of this
green bronze figure. Hardly as much, I dare say.”
until one night when he drove past Nahum's house in his sleigh on the
to think that as far as his conversation was concerned, Charmides might
only in the features of those They have begotten on mankind_; and
The same nervous staccato laugh broke from her thin lips, and her
dast. I guess he won't. Grandfather kept me saying the Dho formula
which this trouble ceased. Not long after this the change in grass and
in the vain hope of cleansing himself of that stain of innocent blood
might have been kinder to me.  But God has given us a lonely house.  And
any definite structure or building, he dwells only on the broad
the road, were now neighing and pawing frantically. The wagon driver
disgraceful deception, he succeeded in the course of the afternoon in
Shouldn’t mind being introduced to my own tailor; he always votes on the
HÉRODIAS.
under a canopy of purple velvet embroidered with little pearls.  Then
Yes, sir.
I can see no possible defence at all for your deceiving a brilliant,
dull and usually violent.
swamp-found image and the Greenland devil tablet, but had come _in his
Why on earth do you say that?
There are things which cannot be mentioned, and what is done in common
fifteen. His lip and cheek were fuzzy with a coarse dark down, and his
happiness.
cloud of orris-root it seemed—hung in the panting air. The brightly
I thought Robert was to write.  Wonder what Lady Chiltern has got to say
"An' then ... Sally she yelled aout, 'O help, the haouse is a-cavin'
* * * * *
always behind a screen, you can’t care much about it.”
LORD WINDERMERE.  Mrs. Erlynne has received a card.
rose-leaves. She came towards him, and kneeling down at his side, looked
kinder marks in the yard, tew--great raound marks bigger raound than a
restlessness and oppression; a touch of the unreal and the grotesque,
eleven months. His speech was somewhat remarkable both because of its
MR. MONTFORD.  I don’t know that I like being watched when I am eating!
he was turning the handle of the door, his eye fell upon the portrait
speculation.  The House of Commons had not yet passed the bill; it might
had seen upstairs. Good God! What eldritch dream-world was this into
letter about it to the local newspaper.  Every one quoted it, it was full
half the excitement. . . . My business as an artist was with Ariel.  I
that a strict watch would be kept for her, and, after having bought a
LADY WINDERMERE.  Yes—who has called?
picturesque_.
You must not laugh at me, darling, but it had always been a girlish
other people having the same faults as ourselves. I quite sympathize
Lady Windermere, your husband tells me.
These Great Old Ones, Castro continued, were not composed altogether
And now, as I have given you my wheelbarrow, I am sure you would like to
schooner _Emma_ of Auckland, which sailed for Callao February 20th,
“How serious you both are!” she cried. “What is the matter?”
course, to sit upon their chests, so as to produce the stifling
“Of course he likes it,” said Lord Henry. “Who wouldn’t like it? It is
again, and the secret priests would take great Cthulhu from His tomb
gone far along that path of retrogression so common in many New England
_Fifth Impression_      _February_ 1907
in spectral procession, and wild shadows to fling themselves across his
LADY MARKBY.  On your head, child?  Oh! I hope not.  I believe it is most
être très froide, comme de l’ivoire . . . Je veux le regarder de près.
stones on the other hills. Things like that brought down the beings
the drawing-room_.]  What is that?
“Why, you don’t even know his name,” answered the lad. “Who is he? I
can’t go anywhere without meeting clever people. The thing has become
shall ye know them," he quoted. Yes--the odor was the same as that
PLACE:        _London_.
DUCHESS OF BERWICK.  [_Fanning herself_.]  The air is so pleasant there.
Hectic spots of red burned on his cheeks. He was terribly excited.
art of Giotto, and Dante's _Divine Comedy_, was not allowed to develop on
“But what became of the Miller?” asked the Water-rat.
I must see him at once on a most important christening—I mean on most
[Pulling off his gloves_._] When one is in town one amuses oneself.
fail, they subside gradually into a disappointed silence.
“Well, that is his loss, not mine,” answered the Rocket.
retournée au festin comme je le lui avais commandé? ah! la voilà!
the lore he had picked up from Dunwich rustics and villagers during
LORD GORING.  During the Season, father, I only talk seriously on the
me what to do?
nd
There is no good mixing up sentimentality in it.  I offered to sell
brutal and incessant threats of suicide that made me accept him at all,
animals.
are not going to be suspended for the British aristocracy."
Hallward turned again to the portrait and gazed at it. “My God! If it
How about it?"
confused babel of voices sounded down the road. Another moment brought
of him as the grey, twisted, brittle monstrosity which persists more
He talked of his dreams in a strangely poetic fashion; making me
LORD GORING.  [_Arranging his necktie_.]  So little that I got engaged to
whilst the hill noises rumbled faintly.
and sentimental.  But he was really neither one nor the other.  Pity he
Steam had not been suffered to go down entirely, despite the departure
saved him.
romantic, background was everything, or almost everything. Basil had
with each other, and weighing out money in copper scales.  At last he
Two days ago I asked Sibyl to marry me. I am not going to break my word
from ours. Now an unlettered seaman felt the same thing whilst gazing
the horse as it splashed up the puddles. The sidewindows of the hansom
Shaken with such a mental revolution as I had never before known, I
